Welcome to the website for the ICML 2013 Workshop in Challenges in Representation Learning. The workshop will be held on Friday, June 21 in Atlanta, GA. For those at the conference, it is in rooms L401-3.
There has been a great deal of recent work on learning useful representations of data, much of it emerging from researchers interested in training deep architectures. Deep learning methods such as deep belief networks, sparse coding­-based methods, convolutional networks, deep Boltzmann machines, and dropout have shown promise as a means of learning invariant representations of data and have already been successfully applied to a variety of tasks in computer vision, audio processing, natural language processing, information retrieval, robotics, drug design and finance. Bayesian nonparametric methods and other hierarchical graphical model­-based approaches have also been recently shown the ability to learn rich representations of data.
Our workshop will feature four invited speakers who have been chosen for the influence they have had on the field of representation learning:
Ilya Sutskever, University of Toronto, Google. Learning Control Laws with Recurrent Neural Networks
Grégoire Montavon, Berlin T.U. Deep Learning of Molecular Electronic Properties in Chemical Compound Space
Ruslan Salakhutdinov, University of Toronto. Annealing Between Distributions by Averaging Moments
For this workshop we invited the community to compete in three challenges intended to advance the field of representation learning. See the challenges page for more information.
These papers are about representation learning, but do not necessarily relate directly to the specific challenges we highlighted with contests.
Nitish Srivastava and Ruslan Salakhutdinov. Discriminative Transfer Learning with Tree-based Priors
Yichuan Tang and Ruslan Salakhutdinov. A New Learning Algorithm for Stochastic Feedforward Neural Nets
Misha Denil, Babak Shakibi, Laurent Dinh, MarcAurelio Ranzato, Nando de Freitas. Predicting Parameters in Deep Learning
Roger Grosse, Chris Maddison, Ruslan Salakhutdinov. Annealing Between Distributions by Averaging Moments
Olgert Denas and James Taylor. Deep modeling of gene expression regulation in an Erythropoiesis model
James Bergstra and David D. Cox. Hyperparameter Optimization and Boosting for Classifying Facial Expressions: How good can a Null Model be?
Alexander Grubb and J. Andrew Bagnell. Stacked Training for Overfitting Avoidance in Deep Networks
Sumit Chopra, Suhrid Balakrishnan, and Raghuraman Gopalan. DLID: Deep Learning for Domain Adaptation by Interpolating between Domains
These papers are about methods that performed well in the Kaggle contests that highlight challenges in representation learning. All of these accepted papers correspond to methods that performed extremely well in the contestseither getting perfect accuracy in the multimodal learning challenge, roughly human-level performance in the facial expression recognition challenge, or in the top 3% of entrants to the black box learning challenge.
Lukasz Romaszko. A Deep Learning Approach with an Ensemble-Based Neural Network Classifier for Black Box ICML 2013 Contest
Fangxiang Feng, Ruifan Li, Xiaojie Wang. Constructing Hierarchical Image-tags Bimodal Representations for Word Tags Alternative Choice
Jingjing Xie, Bing Xu, Zhang Chuang. Horizontal and Vertical Ensemble with Deep Representation for Classification
Radu Tudor Ionescu, Marius Popescu, Cristian Grozea. Local Learning to Improve Bag of Visual Words Model for Facial Expression Recognition
Dong-Hyun Lee. Pseudo-Label : The Simple and Efficient Semi-Supervised Learning Method for Deep Neural Networks
 Last modified on June 20, 2013, at 11:26 am by goodfeli
