 CiteScore measures the average citations received per document published in this title. CiteScore values are based on citation counts in a given year (e.g. 2015) to documents published in three previous calendar years (e.g. 2012 – 14), divided by the number of documents in these three previous years (e.g. 2012 – 14).
 2016: 1.995The Impact Factor measures the average number of citations received in a particular year by papers published in the journal during the two preceding years.
 2016: 2.164To calculate the five year Impact Factor, citations are counted in 2016 to the previous five years and divided by the source items published in the previous five years.
 2016: 0.820SJR is a prestige metric based on the idea that not all citations are the same. SJR uses a similar algorithm as the Google page rank; it provides a quantitative and a qualitative measure of the journal’s impact.
 This application lets readers explore data and other quantitative results submitted with the article, providing insights into and access to data that is otherwise buried in plots.
 Publishing your article with us has many benefits, such as having access to a personal dashboard: citation and usage data on your publications in one place. This free service is available to anyone who has published and whose publication is in Scopus.
Pattern Recognition is one of the most important branches of Artificial Intelligence, which focuses on the description, measurement and classification of patterns involved in various data. In the past 60 years, great progress has been achieved in both the theories and applications of pattern recognition. A typical pattern recognition system is composed of preprocessing, feature extraction, classifier design and postprocessing.
Nowadays, we have entered a new era of big data, which offers both opportunities and challenges to the field of Pattern Recognition. We should seek new Pattern Recognition theories to be adaptive to big data. We should push forward new Pattern Recognition applications benefited from big data.
Deep Learning, which can be treated as the most significant breakthrough in the past 10 years in the field of pattern recognition and machine learning, has greatly affected the methodology of related fields like computer vision and achieved terrific progress in both academy and industry. It can be seen as a resolution to change the whole pattern recognition system. It achieved an endtoend pattern recognition, merging previous steps of preprocessing, feature extraction, classifier design and postprocessing.
It is expected that the development of deep learning theories and applications would further influence the field of pattern recognition.
This special issue mainly focuses on Deep Learning for Pattern Recognition (DLPR). We are soliciting original contributions, of leading researchers and practitioners from academia as well as industry, which address a wide range of theoretical and application issues in deep learning for pattern recognition.
Original papers to survey the recent progress in this exciting area and highlight potential solutions to
common challenging problems are also welcome. The topics include, but not limited to:
We expect to publish about 12 high quality and topic-related articles in this special issue. Contributions to
this special issue will come both from the attendees of the ICPR 2016 Workshop on Deep Learning for Pattern Recognition, and from other authors working in the field. Of course, in case of submissions that are extended versions of previous conference papers, at least 1/3 new content should be added for the journal version and there should not be parts of the article that are verbatim the same as in the conference paper. In any case, all submitted articles should not have been previously published and should not be submitted for publication elsewhere at the time of the submission to the special issue. A review article (RA) authored by outstanding researchers in the field will be invited in this special issue.
The review process will be done by following the standard review process of Pattern Recognition Letters, according to which each paper will be reviewed by at least two experts in the field. In general, only two reviewing rounds will be possible, out of which major revision is possible only for the first round. Papers that after the 2nd reviewing round still need major revision will be most possibly rejected.
Prospective authors are invited to upload their manuscripts during the submissions period. Papers should be prepared by adhering to the PRLetters guidelines, in particular as regards the maximum number of allotted pages (10 pages in the PRL layout). When uploading their papers through the online system,
Authors should select the acronym SI: DLPR to make it clear that they are submitting to this special issue.
Guest editors will make an initial determination of the suitability and scope of all submissions.
Institute of Computing Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100190, China
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, NYU Abu Dhabi, UAE and NYU Tandon School of
