 Deep learning is a sub-field of machine learning that is based on learning several levels of representations, corresponding to a hierarchy of features or factors or concepts, where higher-level concepts are defined from lower-level ones, and the same lower-level concepts can help to define many higher-level concepts.
 Deep Learning makes MIT Tech Review’s list of top-10 breakthroughs of 2013. 
 Won ImageNet 2012 challenge on recognizing 1000 different types of object. 
 Most of the approaches in ImageNet 2013 challenge use deep learning models. 
 Deep learning is becoming a mainstream technology for speech recognition at industrial scale. 
 Won the competition to predict job salaries from job advertisements 
 Won ICPR 2012 mitosis detection in breast cancer histological images. 
 Best artificial offline recognizer of Chinese characters from the ICDAR 2013 competition. 
 Baidu opens a deep learning lab in the Silicon Valley. 
 Yahoo acquires startup LookFlow to work on Flickr And ‘Deep Learning’. 
 Google and Baidu announced their deep learning (specifically, convolutional neural network) based visual search engines. 
 P. Luo, Y. Tian, X. Wang, and X. Tang, "Switchable Deep Network for Pedestrian Detection", IEEE Conf. on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, June 2014
 W. Ouyang and X. Wang, "Joint Deep Learning for Pedestrian Detection," in Proceedings of IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV) 2013 [PDF] [Project Page]
 X. Zeng, W. Ouyang and X. Wang, "Multi-Stage Contextual Deep Learning for Pedestrian Detection," in Proceedings of IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV) 2013 [PDF]
 W. Ouyang, X. Zeng and X. Wang, "Modeling Mutual Visibility Relationship with a Deep Model in Pedestrian Detection," in Proceedings of IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pp. 3222-3229, 2013 [PDF] [Project Page]
 W. Ouyang, and X. Wang, "A Discriminative Deep Model for Pedestrian Detection with Occlusion Handling," in Proceedings of IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pp. 3258-3265, 2012 [PDF]
 Y. Sun, X. Wang, and X. Tang. "Deep learning face representation from predicting 10,000 classes", IEEE Conf. on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, June 2014
 Y. Sun, X. Wang, and X. Tang, "Hybrid Deep Learning for Computing Face Similarities," in Proceedings of IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV) 2013 [PDF]
 Z. Zhu, P. Luo, X. Wang, and X. Tang, "Deep Learning Identity Preserving Face Space," in Proceedings of IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV) 2013 [PDF]
 P. Luo, X. Wang, and X. Tang, "A Deep Sum-Product Architecture for Robust Facial Attributes Analysis," in Proceedings of IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV) 2013 [PDF]
 Y. Sun, X. Wang and X. Tang, "Deep Convolutional Network Cascade for Facial Point Detection," in Proceedings of IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pp. 3476-3483, 2013 [PDF] [Project Page]
 P. Luo, X. Wang, and X. Tang, "Hierarchical Face Parsing via Deep Learning", in Proceedings of IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pp. 2480-2487, 2012 [PDF]
 W. Ouyang, X. Chu, and X. Wang, "Multi-source Deep Learning for Human Pose Estimation", IEEE Conf. on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, June 2014
 P. Luo, X. Wang, and X. Tang, "Pedestrian Parsing via Deep Decompositional Neural Network," in Proceedings of IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV) 2013 [PDF] [Project Page]
 W. Li, R. Zhao, T. Xiao, and X. Wang, "DeepReID: Deep Filter Pairing Neural Network for Person Re-Identiﬁcation", IEEE Conf. on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, June 2014
 P. Luo, X. Wang, and X. Tang, "Pedestrian Parsing via Deep Decompositional Neural Network," in Proceedings of IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV) 2013 [PDF] [Project Page]
 Z. Zhu, P. Luo, X. Wang, and X. Tang, "Deep Learning Identity Preserving Face Space," in Proceedings of IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV) 2013 [PDF] [Project Page]
 Wanli Ouyang, Xiaogang Wang, "Joint Deep Learning for Pedestrian Detection&quot, in Proceedings of IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV) 2013 [PDF] [Project Page]
 Wanli Ouyang, Xiaogang Wang, "A Discriminative Deep Model for Pedestrian Detection with Occlusion Handling&quot, in Proceedings of IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) 2012 [PDF] [Project Page]
 Y. Sun, X. Wang and X. Tang, "Deep Convolutional Network Cascade for Facial Point Detection," in Proceedings of IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pp. 3476-3483, 2013 [PDF] [Project Page]
 Deep Learning Methods for Vision - 1 day tutorial at CVPR 2012. 
 Tutorial on Deep Learning - 1 day tutorial at ICML 2013. 
 Deep Learning for Computer Vision - Half day tutorial at NIPS 2013. Tutorial slides 
 Jake Bouvrie, Notes on Convolutional Neural Networks. A very brief and clear introduction of forward and backward propagation of CNN. 
 Recommended for readers who understand neural networks but does not understand CNN. 
 Yoshua Bengio, Learning Deep Architectures for AI, Foundations and Trends in Machine Learning, 2009. 
 Recommended for startup readers. It is a very good illustration of deep learing models. Easy to understand. 
 Hoifung Poon and Pedro Domingos, Sum-Product Networks: A New Deep Architecture, UAI 2011 (Best Paper)
 Robert Gens and Pedro Domingos, Discriminative Learning of Sum-Product Networks, NIPS 2012 (Outstanding Student Paper Awards)
 Robert Gens and Pedro Domingos, Learning the Structure of Sum-Product Networks, ICML 2013
 Sum-product networks are a new deep learning architecture that yields tractable inference. Deep architectures are the most expressive machine learning models in existence, but are notoriously difficult to train. This paper shows how to discriminatively train sum-product networks, which leads to significantly improved prediction accuracy.
 This site was built using Bootstrap, a front-end framework for web development. Thanks to the following site developers and all lab members that contribute their suggestions and information
