The Analyst Toolbox helps you build software agents to codify your own knowledge management system to score, rank, filter and classify documents, databases, survey and email.  We have solutions for financial analysts, competitive intelligence, knowledge management, portfolio scoring, quality analytics and market survey coding.
Analyst Toolbox is an end-user application for professionals who are dissatisfied with the current cost, complexity and inflexibility of text analytics for document and unstructured data repositories. Unlike other  tools for text analytics, Analyst Toolbox requires very little training and is able to detect ideas even if they are expressed using different words. It is fast, cloud based or on-premise and provides API access for workflow automation.
The Analyst Toolbox is powered by Nathan ICE, our proprietary biologically inspired core technology for language.  The engine of the Analyst Toolbox is the BrainDocs application which provides the platform for processing document libraries, building agents and analyzing results.  The BrainDocs API is available to enterprise developers for application development and is part of our cloud service hosted on MS Azure.
ai-one™ – Biologically Inspired Intelligence:  We provide software programming tools that enable any developer to build intelligent software agents. Our core technology emulates the complex pattern recognition functions of the human brain. It can detect the key features and contextual meaning of text, time-series and visual data.
As you know, Artificial intelligence, or AI, has been a part of our world at ai-one since our founding in 2003.  Dont be confused by the latest buzzwords, deep learning, machine learning, artificial intelligence and biologically inspired intelligence (our Nathan) are all part of the field of A.I.    Its a hot subject now but the languages, techniques and algorithms have been around for decades, often as part of an application (Google search and map directions for example).
In order to become its own industry A.I. needs a large number of companies, money and its own problems to solve.  This is the real news of the last few years and Max Wegner and our friends at appcessories.co.uk have created State of Artificial Intelligence Infographic to tell the story.
Today A.I. is a significant and growing sector of the technology industry; billions of dollars are invested in new AI developments, and companies around the world are working on new AI applications as you read this. And while most AI companies have been in existence for less than a decade (the average age is around four or five years), the tech behind AI is evolving, and the role of AI in our lives in the coming years is all but certain to grow.
One of the surprises in the report is the ranking of Switzerland as the second largest location in the world by amount of VC funding received and third by number of companies.  With almost all of the companies less than 10 years old, ai-one was clearly early, before the cloud and big data brought in the new era. Our biologically inspired intelligence is another differentiation from all but a few of these companies.
It is a new era and with all the competition comes the demand from the business community to make significant investments in A.I. powered applications.  We see the change in the character of the inbound leads from our website.  In the past those inquiries were from PhDs, engineers and startups where today they are almost exclusively from product managers at larger enterprises.  This is the type of demand that will drive growth and were excited to be in this space.
If you want to put see what our AI can do for your enterprise, please connect.
Tags: AI, artificial intelligence, deep learning, machine learning, NLP Posted in Intelligent Agents, machine learning for financial services, New Technologies, News, Research Related to Biological Intelligence, text analytics | Comments Off on The State of A.I. and Switzerland
We are pleased to publish ISCs submission under the DIUx program.  The new  Defense Innovation Unit Experimental (DIUx) serves as a bridge between those in the U.S. military executing on some of our nation’s toughest security challenges and companies operating at the cutting edge of technology. Powered by ai-ones Nathan ICE artificial intelligence core for language, ISCs Pytheas AI will provide ISC with the technology to assist researchers and help our governments keep us safe.  Some proprietary sections have been deleted in the version below.
ISC White Paper for DIUx Technology Area of Interest: Knowledge Management
ISC/ai-one develops a prototype using Pytheas artificial intelligence (Pytheas AI) which will provide automated intelligent information management, or knowledge management (KM) of multiple data sources.  Pytheas AI fingerprints the flow of data from almost any source including chat, email, message traffic, and other data.   This AI core then supports the user in a publish/subscribe architecture, with building knowledge from the fingerprinted data through queries and intuitive alerts that understand the difference and importance of contextual situations.
The abundant quantity of data that is available to users, analysts, and commanders today can make it challenging to build a concise and accurate picture from which dynamic assessments can be made. Both Command and Control (C2) and intelligence systems are largely data-centric. Users that are required to make strategic and tactical decisions will benefit from a task-centric user experience that is able to manage information as it is created and presented, and distil many sources of data into a manageable data flow.  This user experience, facilitated by Pytheas AI will deliver an KM Engine that can accelerate the decision making process.
Through Pytheas AI the user will be presented with data that has gone through automated processes to be categorized, tagged, and ranked according to its value in the current context of operations.  Pytheas AI will give the user flexibility to tailor their focus area and pull information from a wide breadth of sources as they build situational awareness and confidence to take action.
ISC/ai-one proposes a three phase project.  Phase 1 will include one-week for initial installation, configuration and user training. Phase 2 will include a five-month period to support data ingestion, intelligent agent training and dashboard customization. Phase 3 will include a three-week evaluation and close out.
Pytheas AI is built with an artificial intelligence core to collect, organize and analyze language to uncover key links and patterns within large volumes of unstructured text.  The application empowers analysts to find the relationships necessary to discover, manage, process and exploit data.  Key features and attributes of Pytheas include:
Agent collections can be built from existing plans, roadmaps and strategy documents
DoD analysts can use common KM collections or build and share concept agents
Pytheas AI is built upon ai-one’s BrainDocs software application (with NathanICE API core) which is a commercially ready and viable technology that has been applied to several use-cases similar to the requirements in the technology area of interest, knowledge management, that DIUx is seeking.  Our prototype for KM is ready for demonstration using sample data.
Pytheas uses the ability of ai-one’s proprietary NathanICE API to discern patterns in the words and associations that are central to the meaning of all or a portion of a text document (in the same way as the brain).  Nathan extracts these keywords and associations, filtering out the noise to create a proprietary fingerprint array of the concept that can be used in many ways.
Pytheas uses the fingerprint of a trained concept to find (rank) similar concepts within a corpus of information (documents, websites, databases) and returns paragraph-level results sorted by “similarity”. These results support a variety of workflows in enterprise compliance, classification, search and knowledge management.  Agent similarity scores are exported to Excel or your database to support analytics and BI tools. This can be done by the analyst for small ad hoc studies.  Agents can also be used to code years of legacy data without additional training.
Users employ agents in Pytheas AI to organize text based on contextual ideas and metadata dimensions, improving accuracy, consistency and saving substantial amounts of time in this tedious process.
Documents – Pytheas is capable of analyzing any form of unstructured text. In fact, our technology works best with semantically-rich content written in your business vernacular without external taxonomies or ontologies.  Working at the paragraph level it has been used on everything from text messages to database fields to long documents always with full traceability to source.
Conceptual Fingerprints  This is the “secret sauce” of our discovery capabilities. Pytheas uses the Nathan API keywords and associations to create semantic “fingerprints” of concepts. Because one concept can be written in multiple ways, our algorithm does not rely on word counts, natural language processing (NLP) or latent semantic analysis (LSA) when identifying and fingerprinting concepts.
Intelligent Agents  Pytheas agents examine and compare the conceptual fingerprints to find traces of concepts buried within your data. Our premise is that analyst is the expert and needs to be able to train their own army of software agents to “read” documents and deliver the relevant paragraph. Used as a collection, the scores from a collection of agents set the context for a user’s query.
Paragraph Level Concept Discovery  Pytheas provides the ability to categorize and display concept results at the paragraph-level. Users do not need to hunt through documents trying to find a concept that a search engine claims to be present. Our system will return the paragraph(s) that closely match a concept, sort and group the concepts by similarity to one another. Paragraphs can be evaluated and traced back to their source document for reporting and distribution.
Ease of Integration – Pytheas application can be used with conventional desktop tools for ad hoc projects.  For workflow automation a Restful API provides developers an easy method to process documents and export results to SQL or other DBs for reporting and visualizations.
Optional Entity Extraction and Sentiment (Figure 1 above) – Complementing paragraph level concept detection is the ability to extract entities and/or score for sentiment so this information can be added to visualizations and follow on workflows.  Clients can use their own technology for this purpose or add custom analytics to further refine the insight for social network analysis, tagging existing file headers or streamlining the flow of information into the analyst.
The immediate benefit to DoD is increased productivity, consistent analysis and more effective information management.  The long-term benefit is an ability to perform quicker, more informed decisions.
Operational users of this prototype include any person that has to search through data.  This includes anyone using SharePoint and other common organizational databases.  Analysts who must sift through massive amounts of data in order to discover relevant information will save countless hours through the employment of our prototype.   Through the employment of a similar use case at NASA, our customer was able to complete a typical six-week project in one-week!
Lead by ISC, personnel from ISC Consulting and ai-one inc. will execute the project. 
ISC Consulting Group is a Service Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business (SDVOSB). We are headquartered in Sierra Vista, Arizona, with operational offices at Ft. Huachuca, AZ; Orlando, FL; Ft. Gordon, GA; and Northern Virginia. ISC provides a full-spectrum of services, products & solutions supporting the DOD Intelligence Community and key commercial clients with advanced capabilities in Instructional Solutions, Cyber Security, Command and Control planning and operations, Intelligence operations, Information Technology, and Data Analytics through Artificial Intelligence products and services.
ai-one inc. is the developer of a proprietary core technology that emulates the complex pattern recognition functions of the human brain that can detect the key features and contextual meaning of text, time-series and visual data.  This technology will enable DIUx to score and analyze any piece of textual content and discover information by concept, bringing the dimension of AI understanding to knowledge management. This technology automatically generates a lightweight ontology that easily detects all relationships among data elements; solving the immediate problems facing the DIUx knowledge management based process and schedule.
ISC has served several clients with Pytheas technology, including NASA Marshall Space Flight Center (MSFC).   Currently, Pytheas is being used by MSFC’s Advanced Concepts Office (ACO) under a Cooperative Agreement to assist in technology roadmap development and separately by the Office of Strategic Analysis and Communication (OSAC) to manage and report on their portfolio of project investments (similar to SBIR grants).   For example, the roadmap project is described below:
The Advance Concepts Office (ACO) at MSFC, NASA is developing and refining methods and processes for performing Information Based Decisions for Strategic Technology Investments.  This system is currently referred to as TAPP, Technology Alignment & Prioritization Process.   This process supports the evaluation of the technologies for investment by NASA and MSFC to insure alignment with NASA mission plans, technology area priorities and strategic knowledge gaps.
TAPP creates an interactive system for exploring the almost mind boggling complexity of planning for multiple missions using over 400 technologies (many still in basic research) and hundreds of interrelated elements/sub-elements over 30-year planning horizons.
Pytheas provides NASA the capability to have data mining agents parse and score unstructured content against the nearly 400 technologies identified in the 15 Technology Roadmaps.  This ability to score proposals with agents allows ACO to perform statistical analysis within the Information Based Decision framework for Strategic Investments.
The immediate benefit to ACO is increased productivity and consistent analysis. The long-term benefit is an ability to perform quicker, more informed technology assessments, feasibility analysis, and concept studies that align with NASA evolving strategic goals and multiple mission objectives.
Given a six-month prototype build period, ISC/ai-one will demonstrate to DIUx that ISC/ai-one’s Pytheas AI application will enable the organization to save critical time and human capital in the implementation and operation of knowledge management systems.  Pytheas will empower the IC to rapidly and effectively sort through vast volumes of text data in order to gain knowledge and position decision makers with the right information to achieve stated organizational analytical research outcomes.
Tags: AI, analytics, BI, business intelligence, deep learnin, knowledge management, text analytics Posted in ai-one Consulting Partners, Cyber applications, data mining, Intelligent Agents, News, text analytics, Use Cases/Case Studies | Comments Off on ISC Consulting Powers Pytheas AI with BrainDocs
If the real life Tony Stark and technology golden boy, Elon Musk, is worried that AI is an existential threat to humanity, are we doomed? Can mere mortals do anything about this when the issue is cloaked in dozens of buzzwords and the primary voices on the subject are evangelists with 180 IQs from Singularity University? Fortunately, you can get smart and challenge them without a degree in AI from MIT.
There are good books on the subject. I like James Barrat’s “Our Final Invention” and while alarmist, it is thorough and provides a guide to a number of resources from both sides of the argument. One of those was the Machine Intelligence Research Institute (MIRI) founded by Eliezer Yudkowsky. This book was recommended on the MIRI website and is a good primer on the subject.
“Smarter Than Us – The Rise of Machine Intelligence” by Stuart Armstrong can also be downloaded at iTunes.
“It will sharpen your focus to see AI from a different view. The book does not provide a manual for Friendly AI, but its shows the problems and it points to the 3 critical things needed. We are evaluating the best way for ai-one to participate in the years ahead.” Walt Diggelmann, CEO ai-one.
In Chapter 11 Armstrong recommends we take an active role in the future development and deployment of AI, AGI and ASI. The developments are coming; the challenge is to make sure AI plays a positive role for everyone. A short summary:
There are three things needed—three little things that will make an AI future bright and full of meaning and joy, rather than dark, dismal, and empty. They are research, funds, and awareness.
A tremendous amount of good research has been accomplished by a very small number of people over the course of the last few years—but so much more remains to be done. And every step we take toward safe AI highlights just how long the road will be and how much more we need to know, to analyze, to test, and to implement.
Moreover, it’s a race. Plans for safe AI must be developed buy generic zoloft before the first dangerous AI is created.
The software industry is worth many billions of dollars, and much effort (and government/defense money) is being devoted to new AI technologies. Plans to slow down this rate of development seem unrealistic. So we have to race toward the distant destination of safe AI and get there fast, outrunning the progress of the computer industry.
Funds are the magical ingredient that will make all of this needed research.
In applied philosophy, ethics, AI itself, and implementing all these results—a reality. Consider donating to the Machine Intelligence Research Institute (MIRI), the Future of Humanity Institute (FHI), or the Center for the Study of Existential Risk (CSER). These organizations are focused on the right research problems. Additional researchers are ready for hire. Projects are sitting on the drawing board. All they lack is the necessary funding. How long can we afford to postpone these research efforts before time runs out? “
About Stuart: “After a misspent youth doing mathematical and medical research, Stuart Armstrong was blown away by the idea that people would actually pay him to work on the most important problems facing humanity. He hasn’t looked back since, and has been focusing mainly on existential risk, anthropic probability, AI, decision theory, moral uncertainty, and long-term space exploration. He also walks the dog a lot, and was recently involved in the coproduction of the strange intelligent agent that is a human baby.”
Since ai-one is a part of this industry and one of the many companies moving the field forward, there will be many more posts on the different issues confronting AI. We will try to keep you updated and hope you’ll join the conversation on Google+, Facebook, Twitter or LinkedIn. AI is already pervasive and developments toward AGI can be a force for tremendous good. Do we think you should worry? Yes, we think it’s better to lose some sleep now so we don’t lose more than that later.
Tags: AGI, AI, artificial intelligence, deep learning, friendly AI, machine learning Posted in data mining, Intelligent Agents, machine learning sdk, New Technologies, News, Research Related to Biological Intelligence | Comments Off on AI, AGI, ASI, Deep Learning, Intelligent Machines.. Should you worry?
In the sensationally titled Forbes post, Tech 2015: Deep Learning And Machine Intelligence Will Eat The World, author Anthony Wing Kosner surveys the impact of deep learning technology in 2015. This is nothing new for those in the field of AI. His post reflects the recent increase in coverage artificial intelligence (AI) technologies and companies are getting in business and mainstream media. As a core technology vendor in AI for over ten years, it’s a welcome change in perspective and attitude.
We are pleased to see ai-one correctly positioned as a core technology vendor in the Machine Intelligence Landscape chart featured in the article. The chart, created by Shivon Zilis, investor at BloombergBETA, is well done and should be incorporated into the research of anyone seriously tracking this space.
Especially significant is Zilis’ focus on “companies that will change the world of work” since these are companies applying AI technologies to innovation and productivity challenges across the public and private sectors. The resulting solutions will provide real value through the combination of domain expertise (experts and data) and innovative application development.
This investment thesis is supported by the work of Erik Brynjolfsson and Andrew McAfee in their book “The Second Machine Age”, a thorough discussion of value creation (and disruption) by the forces of innovation that is digital, exponential and combinatorial. The impact of these technologies will change the economics of every industry over years if not decades to come. Progress and returns will be uneven in their impact on industry, regional and demographic sectors. While deep learning is early in Gartner’s Hype Cycle, it is clear that the market value of machine learning companies and data science talent are climbing fast.
This need for data scientists is growing but the business impact of AI may be limited in the near future by the lack of traditional developers who can apply them. Jeff Hawkins of Numenta has spoken out on this issue and we agree. It is a fundamentally different way to create an application for “ordinary humans” and until the “killer app” Hawkin’s speaks about is created, it will be hard to attract enough developers to invest time learning new AI tools. As the chart zoloft online shop shows, there are many technologies competing for their time. Developers can’t build applications with buzzwords and one size fits all APIs or collections of open source algorithms. Technology vendors have a lot of work to do in this respect.
Returning to Kosner’s post, what exactly is deep learning and how is it different from machine learning/artificial intelligence? According to Wikipedia,
Deep learning is a class of machine learning training algorithms that use many layers of nonlinear processing units for feature extraction and transformation. The algorithms may be supervised or unsupervised and applications include pattern recognition and statistical classification.
are based on the (unsupervised) learning of multiple levels of features or representations of the data. Higher level features are derived from lower level features to form a hierarchical representation.
are part of the broader machine learning field of learning representations of data.
learn multiple levels of representations that correspond to different levels of abstraction; the levels form a hierarchy of concepts.
form a new field with the goal of moving toward artificial intelligence. The different levels of representation help make sense of data such as images, sounds and texts.
These definitions have in common (1) multiple layers of nonlinear processing units and (2) the supervised or unsupervised learning of feature representations in each layer, with the layers forming a hierarchy from low-level to high-level features.
While in the 4th bullet this is termed a new field moving toward artificial intelligence, it is generally considered to be part of the larger field of AI already. Deep learning and machine intelligence is not the same as human intelligence. Artificial intelligence in this definition above and in the popular press usually refers to Artificial General Intelligence (AGI). AGI and the next evolution, Artificial Super Intelligence (ASI) are the forms of AI that Stephen Hawking and Elon Musk are worried about.
This is powerful stuff no question, but as an investor, user or application developer in 2015 look for the right combination of technology, data, domain expertise, and application talent applied to a compelling (valuable) problem in order to create a disruptive innovation (value). This is where the money is over the new five years and this is our focus at ai-one.
 Posted in data mining, machine learning for financial services, machine learning sdk, News, text analytics | Comments Off on ai-one and the Machine Intelligence Landscape
“New, fast, desktop analytics tools enable CEOs to measure top line impact of acquisitions during due diligence, avoiding revenue misses and integration problems after closing.  We can now complete the analysis and publish a dashboard to a CEO’s desktop during due diligence while there is still time to negotiate.” Says KDD Analytics President, Dr. Duffy-Deno.
Driven by the need for better insight into vast amounts of customer information in websites, market surveys, company profiles, sales reports, emails and research reports, KDD Analytics (KDD) has been partnering with ai-one to create innovative ways to visualize this data in Tableau dashboards.
When KDD showed us ZIP Pointe© and told us the story of the CEO in the following presentation, we knew he had a winner.
 Buyers Remorse  Using analytics to mitigate M&A risk from KDDanalytics 
Any CEO or management team that’s been through the M&A process knows how difficult it is to analyze the target’s revenue in the brief and stressed period of due diligence.  ZIP Pointe© provides the insight you would expect from a SOR enterprise solution within the time and cost constraints of M&A.  A CEO can’t afford not to use it.
Developed for CMOs and CSOs on a tight budget trying to meet planning deadlines, KDD’s new SaaS offering, ZIP Pointe© is used to analyze and size geographic markets down to the 6-digit NAICS level.  And with the custom integration of customer data, it can be used to profile customers, estimate market and wallet share, identify specific market segments of high spend potential and generate a list of ZIP codes sorted by opportunity for targeting purposes.
ZIP Pointe© summarizes and enhances US Census generic zoloft online Bureau data for over 7 million private sector business sites with paid employees across the US.  This data is enhanced with estimates of revenue and payroll per site and measure(s) of potential spend per site (what companies could spend on software for example).  The data is reformatted and displayed online in an interactive Tableau dashboard.
Integration of customer data in ZIP Pointe© allows for customer base profiling, estimation of market and wallet share, identification of whether the correct segments are being targeted in terms of revenue and potential spend per site and the degree of success in penetrating specific markets.  When used to support M&A due diligence, integration of the target customer base immediately shows how it aligns (or doesn’t) with current customers and expectations.
ZIP Pointe© is offered on an annual subscription basis at a very affordable $1,999 or $2,999 per user, depending on desired capabilities.  Integration of customer data adds a one-time cost, the amount of which depends on whether firmographics need to be appended to the customer file.  In the case of an M&A application, the total cost would likely be $5,000 to $10,000, a steal when acquisition costs are in the millions.  Check out ZIP Pointe© at http://kddanalytics.com/zippointe.html.
KDD provides expertise in predictive analytics and Tableau visualizations, with domain specialization in B2B quantitative marketing analytics.  If you’re looking to attack your growth plan for 2015 backed by powerful marketing analytics, or need analytical support for M&A due diligence, contact Dr. Duffy-Deno at info@kddanalytics.com or give me a call and I’ll introduce you.
 Posted in News | Comments Off on Analytics In MA  Avoid Overpaying for Revenue
Given the need for more effective content marketing and better quality lead generation, why aren’t the tools better?  Certainly there are lots of applications, SaaS products and services available for all parts of the marketing and sales process.   With BrainBrowser we provide a tool that can understand the content from marketing and match it to bloggers, LinkedIn connections, Twitter followers and find candidates in places you would never look.
Since about one-third of the 7,500+ queries by our testers were using BrainBrowser to search for people, a key objective is to add features to manage the results and integrate them into your workflow.  If you find someone relevant to your work or a potential recruit, you should be able to connect with them right from the list, follow them on Twitter or share lists of candidates with collaborators.
As a recruiting professional your task is to find the candidates and conversations on the web where conversions will be maximized and get there first.  BrainBrowser does this for you, creating a list of people, companies and sites that match the content of your position and company description.
As a sales professional, you want to use content, either from your marketing department or content you find and create on your own, to engage your network and to identify the people that are talking about and responsible for buying/influencing a purchase.
In our research (using BrainBrowser) we discovered Nimble and a new category of Social CRM vendors with applications driving social selling (check out Gerry Morans post for background on content and social selling).  We were immediately hooked and started using Nimble as our company CRM but quickly found it worked well for managing lists of candidates.
Nimble, a new social CRM application, has made integration easy and I’m recommending it to everyone.  All you need to do is sign up for the trial (its only $15 per month if you like it) and install the plug in in your Chrome browser.  You’ll then be able to highlight the name of the person on the list in BrainBrowser, right click, select the Nimble Search and a popup will display the person’s social media pages in LinkedIn, Twitter, Google+ etc.  Click Save and you’ve added them to your Nimble Contacts where you can then view their social media messages, profile and decide whether to connect or follow.   Tag them and you’ve creating a recruiting hot list you can track in Nimble.
Here’s a video clip I tweeted to CEO Jon Ferrara demonstrating how/why we love it.  This was in response to his video clip to Larry Nipon following up on my referral.
Let me know how you like it.  They do a great job but if you have any questions on the difference between CRM and Social CRM, and how were using it for recruiting.  Be sure to add @ai_one or @tom_semantic if you tweet about this and sign up to request a login for BrainBrowser.
As of today, there are only 22 slots left for FREE registrations under the Alpha test program.  Participation gets you a year free on the platform.  Email or tweet @tom_semantic to sign up.
 Posted in Intelligent Agents, New Technologies, News, text analytics, Use Cases/Case Studies | Comments Off on Personal AI Helps Convert Social CRM for Recruiting
Robert Scoble and Shel Israel’s latest book, Age of Context, is a survey of the contributions across the globe to the forces influencing technology and our lives today.  The five forces are mobile, social media, data, sensors and location.  Scoble calls these the five forces of context and harnessed, they are the future of computing.
Pete Mortensen also addressed context in his brilliant May 2013 article in Fast Company “The Future of Technology Isn’t Mobile, It’s Contextual.”   So why is context so important (and difficult)?  First, context is fundamental to our ability to understand the text we’re reading and the world we live in.  In semantics, there is the meaning of the words in the sentence, the context of the page, chapter, book and prior works or conversations, but also the context the reader’s education and experience add to the understanding.  As a computing problem, this is the domain of text analytics.
Second, if you broaden the discussion as Mortensen does to personal intelligent agents (Siri, Google Now), the bigger challenge is complexity.  Inability to understand context has always made it difficult for computers and people to work together.  People and the language we use to describe our world is complex, not mathematical, You can’t be reduced to a formula or rule set, no matter how much data is crunched. Mortensen argues (and we agree) that the five forces are finally giving computers the foundational information needed to understand “your context” and that context is expressed in four data graphs.  These data graphs are
While Google Glass might be the poster child of a contextual UX, ai-one has the technology to power these experiences by extracting Mortensens graphs from the volumes of complex data generated by each of us through our use of digital devices and interaction diflucan uk with increasing numbers of sensors known as the Internet of Things (IoT).  The Nathan API is already being used to process and store unstructured text and deliver a representation of that knowledge in the form of a graph.  This approach is being used today in our BrainDocs product for eDiscovery and compliance.
In Age of Context, ai-one is pleased to be recognized as a new technology addressing the demands of these new types of data.  The data and the applications that use them are no longer stored in silos where only domain experts can access them.  With Nathan the data space learns from the content, delivering a more relevant contextual response to applications in real time with user interfaces that are multi-sensory, human and intuitive.
We provide developers this new capability in a RESTful API. In addition to extracting graphs from user data, they can build biologically inspired intelligent agents they can train and embed in intelligent architectures.   Our new Nathan is enriched with NLP in a new Python middleware that allows us to reach more OEM developers.  Running in the cloud and integrated with big data sources and ecosystems of existing APIs and applications, developers can quickly create and test new applications or add intelligence to old ones.
For end users, the Analyst Toolbox (BrainBrowser and BrainDocs) demonstrates the value proposition of our new form of artificial intelligence and shows developers how Nathan can be used with other technologies to solve language problems.  While we will continue to roll out new features to this SaaS offering for researchers, marketers, government and compliance professionals, the APIs driving the applications will be available to developers.
Mortensen closes, “Within a decade, contextual computing will be the dominant paradigm in technology.”  But how?  That’s where ai-one delivers.  In coming posts we will discuss some of the intelligent architectures built with the Nathan API.
 Posted in data mining, Intelligent Agents, New Technologies, News | Comments Off on Context, Graphs and the Future of Computing
We are pleased to announce the availability of the following publication from prestigious ETH University in Zurich.  This book will be a valuable resource to developers, data scientists, search and knowledge management educators and practitioners trying to deal with the massive amounts of information in both public and private data sources.  We are proud to have our contribution to the field acknowledged in this way.
ai-one was invited to contribute as co-author to a chapter in this technical book.
In the anthology readers will find very different conceptual and technological methods for modeling and digital representation of knowledge for knowledge organizations (universities, research institutes and educational institutions), and companies based on practical examples presented in a synopsis. Both basic models of the organization of knowledge and technical implementations are discussed including their limitations and difficulties in practice.  In particular the areas of knowledge representation and the semantic web are explored. Best practice examples and successful application scenarios provide the reader with a knowledge repository and a guide for the implementation of their own projects. The following topics are covered in the articles:
digital optimization of the proven analog technology of the list box
The book also includes coding medical diagnoses, contributions to the automated creation of records management models, business fundamentals of computer-aided knowledge organization and integration, the concept of mega regions to support of search processes and the management of print publications in libraries.
ai-one war eigeladen worden, als CO-Autor ein Kapitel in diesem Sachbuch beizusteuern.
Im Sammelband werden die sehr unterschiedlichen konzeptionellen und technologischen Verfahren zur Modellierung und digitalen Repräsentation von Wissen in Wissensorganisationen (Hochschulen, Forschungseinrichtungen und Bildungsinstitutionen) sowie in Unternehmen anhand von  praxisorientierten Beispielen in einer Zusammenschau vorgestellt. Dabei werden sowohl grundlegende Modelle der Organisation von Wissen als auch technische Umsetzungsmöglichkeiten sowie deren Grenzen und Schwierigkeiten in der Praxis insbesondere in den Bereichen der Wissensrepräsentation und des Semantic Web ausgelotet. Good practice Beispiele und erfolgreiche Anwendungsszenarien aus der Praxis bieten dem Leser einen Wissensspeicher sowie eine Anleitung zur Realisierung von eigenen Vorhaben. Folgende Themenfelder werden in den Beiträgen behandelt:
sowie Grundlagen der computergestützten Wissensorganisation und -integration, das Konzept von Mega-Regionen zur Unterstützung von Suchprozessen und zum Management von Printpublikationen in Bibliotheken, automatisierte Kodierung medizinischer Diagnosen sowie Beiträge zum Records Management zur Modellbildung und Bearbeitung von Geschäftsprozessen.
 Posted in data mining, machine learning for financial services, News, text analytics | Comments Off on ai-one Contributes to ETH Publication on Knowledge Representation
