 Communication: Piazza will be used for announcements, general questions and discussions, clarifications about assignments, student questions to each other, and so on. To sign up, go to Piazza and sign up with “UC Berkeley” and “CS294-112”. We request that enrollment be restricted to students enrolled in the class or on the waitlist.
 For people who are not enrolled, but interested in following and discussing the course, there is a subreddit forum here: reddit.com/r/berkeleydeeprlcourse/
 For any student looking to enroll in the fall 2017 offering of this course: here is the form that you may fill out to provide us with some information about your background and sign up for the waitlist. Please do not email the instructors about enrollment: the form will be used to collect all information we need. This waitlist will be used as the official waitlist, not the one on CalCentral. All students should enroll in three units by default. 
Students may enroll in fewer units, but the course content, homeworks, and grading are exactly the same. CS189/CS289A, or an equivalent course from another institution, is a strict prerequisite. Online courses (e.g., Coursera, Udacity) do not satisfy this requirement, it must be a university machine learning course.
 The course lectures are available below. The course is not being offered as an online course, and the videos are provided only for your personal informational and entertainment purposes. They are not part of any course requirement or degree-bearing university program. For all videos, click here. For live
Below you can find an outline of the course. Slides and references will be posted as the course proceeds.
CS189 or equivalent is a prerequisite for the course. This course will assume some familiarity with reinforcement learning, numerical optimization and machine learning. Students who are not familiar with the concepts below are encouraged to brush up using the references provided right below this list. We’ll review this material in class, but it will be rather cursory.
 Classification and regression problems: what loss functions are used, how to fit linear and nonlinear models
 Bertsekas, Dynamic Programming and Optimal Control, Vols I and II
