 Ballrooms A,B,C, but a live video feed will be provided toRooms 302,304,306. Attendees
 are advised to sit in theroom corresponding to the following
Christian Szegedy, Wei Liu, Yangqing Jia, Pierre Sermanet, Scott Reed, Dragomir Anguelov, Dumitru Erhan, Vincent Vanhoucke, Andrew Rabinovich
Anton van den Hengel, Chris Russell, Anthony Dick, John Bastian, Daniel Pooley, Lachlan Fleming, Lourdes Agapito
Deep Neural Networks Are Easily Fooled: High Confidence Predictions for Unrecognizable Images[full
Julian Straub, Trevor Campbell, Jonathan P. How, John W. Fisher III
Christian Szegedy, Wei Liu, Yangqing Jia, Pierre Sermanet, Scott Reed, Dragomir Anguelov, Dumitru Erhan, Vincent Vanhoucke, Andrew Rabinovich
Yunchao Gong, Marcin Pawlowski, Fei Yang, Louis Brandy, Lubomir Bourdev, Rob Fergus
Expanding Object Detector's Horizon: Incremental Learning Framework for Object Detection in Videos[full
What do 15,000 Object Categories Tell Us About Classifying and Localizing Actions?[full
A Light Transport Model for Mitigating Multipath Interference in Time-of-Flight Sensors[full
Nikhil Naik, Achuta Kadambi, Christoph Rhemann, Shahram Izadi, Ramesh Raskar, Sing Bing Kang
Efficient Sparse-to-Dense Optical Flow Estimation Using a Learned Basis and Layers[full
Projection Metric Learning on Grassmann Manifold With Application to Video Based Face Recognition[full
Tianzhu Zhang, Si Liu, Changsheng Xu, Shuicheng Yan, Bernard Ghanem, Narendra Ahuja, Ming-Hsuan Yang
Uncalibrated Photometric Stereo Based on Elevation Angle Recovery From BRDF Symmetry of Isotropic Materials[full
Heat Diffusion Over Weighted Manifolds: A New Descriptor for Textured 3D Non-Rigid Shapes[full
A Dynamic Programming Approach for Fast and Robust Object Pose Recognition From Range Images[full
Zhengzhong Lan, Ming Lin, Xuanchong Li, Alex G. Hauptmann, Bhiksha Raj
Shape Driven Kernel Adaptation in Convolutional Neural Network for Robust Facial Traits Recognition[full
From Categories to Subcategories: Large-Scale Image Classification With Partial Class Label Refinement[full
Improving Object Detection With Deep Convolutional Networks via Bayesian Optimization and Structured Prediction[full
Julian Straub, Trevor Campbell, Jonathan P. How, John W. Fisher III
Modeling Local and Global Deformations in Deep Learning: Epitomic Convolution, Multiple Instance Learning, and Sliding Window Detection[full
Grasp Type Revisited: A Modern Perspective on a Classical Feature for Vision[full
Deep Neural Networks Are Easily Fooled: High Confidence Predictions for Unrecognizable Images[full
Mapping Visual Features to Semantic Profiles for Retrieval in Medical Imaging[full
Building a Bird Recognition App and Large Scale Dataset With Citizen Scientists: The Fine Print in Fine-Grained Dataset Collection[full
Grant Van Horn, Steve Branson, Ryan Farrell, Scott Haber, Jessie Barry, Panos Ipeirotis, Pietro Perona, Serge Belongie
How Do We Use Our Hands? Discovering a Diverse Set of Common Grasps[full
Junho Yim, Heechul Jung, ByungIn Yoo, Changkyu Choi, Dusik Park, Junmo Kim
Is Object Localization for Free? - Weakly-Supervised Learning With Convolutional Neural Networks[full
Xiao-Yuan Jing, Xiaoke Zhu, Fei Wu, Xinge You, Qinglong Liu, Dong Yue, Ruimin Hu, Baowen Xu
Dual Domain Filters Based Texture and Structure Preserving Image Non-Blind Deconvolution[full
MUlti-Store Tracker (MUSTer): A Cognitive Psychology Inspired Approach to Object Tracking[full
Zhibin Hong, Zhe Chen, Chaohui Wang, Xue Mei, Danil Prokhorov, Dacheng Tao
High-Fidelity Pose and Expression Normalization for Face Recognition in the Wild[full
Xiangyu Zhu, Zhen Lei, Junjie Yan, Dong Yi, Stan Z. Li
The Application of Two-Level Attention Models inDeep Convolutional Neural Network for Fine-Grained Image Classification[full
Tianjun Xiao, Yichong Xu, Kuiyuan Yang, Jiaxing Zhang, Yuxin Peng, Zheng Zhang
End-to-End Integration of a Convolution Network, Deformable Parts Model and Non-Maximum Suppression[full
A Mixed Bag of Emotions: Model, Predict, and Transfer Emotion Distributions[full
Anton van den Hengel, Chris Russell, Anthony Dick, John Bastian, Daniel Pooley, Lachlan Fleming, Lourdes Agapito
Soonmin Hwang, Jaesik Park, Namil Kim, Yukyung Choi, In So Kweon
A Low-Dimensional Step Pattern Analysis Algorithm With Application to Multimodal Retinal Image Registration[full
Jimmy Addison Lee, Jun Cheng, Beng Hai Lee, Ee Ping Ong, Guozhen Xu, Damon Wing Kee Wong, Jiang Liu, Augustinus Laude, Tock Han Lim
Hoo-Chang Shin, Le Lu, Lauren Kim, Ari Seff, Jianhua Yao, Ronald M. Summers
Vignesh Ramanathan, Congcong Li, Jia Deng, Wei Han, Zhen Li, Kunlong Gu, Yang Song, Samy Bengio, Charles Rosenberg, Li Fei-Fei
Hao Fang, Saurabh Gupta, Forrest Iandola, Rupesh K. Srivastava, Li Deng, Piotr Dollár, Jianfeng Gao, Xiaodong He, Margaret Mitchell, John C. Platt, C. Lawrence Zitnick, Geoffrey Zweig
Junchi Yan, Chao Zhang, Hongyuan Zha, Wei Liu, Xiaokang Yang, Stephen M. Chu
Hae-Gon Jeon, Jaesik Park, Gyeongmin Choe, Jinsun Park, Yunsu Bok, Yu-Wing Tai, In So Kweon
Similarity Learning on an Explicit Polynomial Kernel Feature Map for Person Re-Identification[full
Membership Representation for Detecting Block-Diagonal Structure in Low-Rank or Sparse Subspace Clustering[full
Yair Movshovitz-Attias, Qian Yu, Martin C. Stumpe, Vinay Shet, Sacha Arnoud, Liron Yatziv
Liang Zheng, Shengjin Wang, Lu Tian, Fei He, Ziqiong Liu, Qi Tian
GRSA: Generalized Range Swap Algorithm for the Efficient Optimization of MRFs[full
Illumination and Reflectance Spectra Separation of a Hyperspectral Image Meets Low-Rank Matrix Factorization[full
Yonggang Qi, Yi-Zhe Song, Tao Xiang, Honggang Zhang, Timothy Hospedales, Yi Li, Jun Guo
Zhirong Wu, Shuran Song, Aditya Khosla, Fisher Yu, Linguang Zhang, Xiaoou Tang, Jianxiong Xiao
Pushing the Frontiers of Unconstrained Face Detection and Recognition: IARPA Janus Benchmark A[full
Brendan F. Klare, Ben Klein, Emma Taborsky, Austin Blanton, Jordan Cheney, Kristen Allen, Patrick Grother, Alan Mah, Mark Burge, Anil K. Jain
Michael W. Tao, Pratul P. Srinivasan, Jitendra Malik, Szymon Rusinkiewicz, Ravi Ramamoorthi
Tali Dekel, Shaul Oron, Michael Rubinstein, Shai Avidan, William T. Freeman
Davide Conigliaro, Paolo Rota, Francesco Setti, Chiara Bassetti, Nicola Conci, Nicu Sebe, Marco Cristani
Discriminant Analysis on Riemannian Manifold of Gaussian Distributions for Face Recognition With Image Sets[full
Seungryong Kim, Dongbo Min, Bumsub Ham, Seungchul Ryu, Minh N. Do, Kwanghoon Sohn
Florian Bernard, Johan Thunberg, Peter Gemmar, Frank Hertel, Andreas Husch, Jorge Goncalves
Kaili Zhao, Wen-Sheng Chu, Fernando De la Torre, Jeffrey F. Cohn, Honggang Zhang
Chao Liu, Hernando Gomez, Srinivasa Narasimhan, Artur Dubrawski, Michael R. Pinsky, Brian Zuckerbraun
Jeffrey Donahue, Lisa Anne Hendricks, Sergio Guadarrama, Marcus Rohrbach, Subhashini Venugopalan, Kate Saenko, Trevor Darrell
Don't Just Listen, Use Your Imagination: Leveraging Visual Common Sense for Non-Visual Tasks[full
Deep learning methods have had a profound impact on a number of areas in recent years, including natural image understanding and speech recognition. Other areas seem on the verge of being similarly impacted, notably natural language processing, biomedical
 image analysis, and the analysis of sequential signals in a variety of application domains. But deep learning systems, as they exist today, have many limitations.
First, they lack mechanisms for reasoning, search, and inference. Complex and/or ambiguous inputs require deliberate reasoning to arrive at a consistent interpretation. Producing structured outputs, such as a long text, or a label map for image segmentation,
 require sophisticated search and inference algorithms to satisfy complex sets of constraints. One approach to this problem is to marry deep learning with structured prediction (an idea first presented at CVPR 1997). While several deep learning systems augmented
 with structured prediction modules trained end to end have been proposed for OCR, body pose estimation, and semantic segmentation, new concepts are needed for tasks that require more complex reasoning.
Second, they lack short-term memory. Many tasks in natural language understanding, such as question-answering, require a way to temporarily store isolated facts. Correctly interpreting events in a video and being able to answer questions about it requires
 remembering abstract representations of what happens in the video. Deep learning systems, including recurrent nets, are notoriously inefficient at storing temporary memories. This has led researchers to propose neural nets systems augmented with separate memory
 modules, such as LSTM, Memory Networks, Neural Turing Machines, and Stack-Augmented RNN. While these proposals are interesting, new ideas are needed.
Lastly, they lack the ability to perform unsupervised learning. Animals and humans learn most of the structure of the perceptual world in an unsupervised manner. While the interest of the ML community in neural nets was revived in the mid-2000s by progress
 in unsupervised learning, the vast majority of practical applications of deep learning have used purely supervised learning. There is little doubt that future progress in computer vision will require breakthroughs in unsupervised learning, particularly for
 video understanding, But what principles should unsupervised learning be based on?
Preliminary works in each of these areas pave the way for future progress in image and video understanding.
Yann LeCun is Director of AI Research at Facebook, and Silver Professor of Data Science, Computer Science, Neural Science, and Electrical Engineering at New York University, affiliated with the NYU Center for Data Science, the Courant Institute of Mathematical
 Science, the Center for Neural Science, and the Electrical and Computer Engineering Department.
He received the Electrical Engineer Diploma from Ecole Superieure d'Ingenieurs en Electrotechnique et Electronique (ESIEE), Paris in 1983, and a PhD in Computer Science from Universite Pierre et Marie Curie (Paris) in 1987. After a postdoc at the University
 of Toronto, he joined AT&T Bell Laboratories in Holmdel, NJ in 1988. He became head of the Image Processing Research Department at AT&T Labs-Research in 1996, and joined NYU as a professor in 2003, after a brief period as a Fellow of the NEC Research Institute
 in Princeton. From 2012 to 2014 he directed NYU's initiative in data science and became the founding director of the NYU Center for Data Science. He was named Director of AI Research at Facebook in late 2013 and retains a part-time position on the NYU faculty.
His current interests include AI, machine learning, computer perception, mobile robotics, and computational neuroscience. He has published over 180 technical papers and book chapters on these topics as well as on neural networks, handwriting recognition,
 image processing and compression, and on dedicated circuits and architectures for computer perception. The character recognition technology he developed at Bell Labs is used by several banks around the world to read checks and was reading between 10 and 20%
 of all the checks in the US in the early 2000s. His image compression technology, called DjVu, is used by hundreds of web sites and publishers and millions of users to access scanned documents on the Web. Since the late 80's he has been working on deep learning
 methods, particularly the convolutional network model, which is the basis of many products and services deployed by companies such as Facebook, Google, Microsoft, Baidu, IBM, NEC, AT&T and others for image and video understanding, document recognition, human-computer
LeCun has been on the editorial board of IJCV, IEEE PAMI, and IEEE Trans. Neural Networks, was program chair of CVPR'06, and is chair of ICLR 2013 and 2014. He is on the science advisory board of Institute for
 Pure and Applied Mathematics, and has advised many large and small companies about machine learning technology, including several startups he co-founded. He is the lead faculty at NYU for the Moore-Sloan Data Science Environment, a $36M initiative in collaboration
 with UC Berkeley and University of Washington to develop data-driven methods in the sciences. He is the recipient of the 2014 IEEE Neural Network Pioneer Award.
The human brain is the most sophisticated image processing system known, capable of impressive feats of recognition and discrimination under challenging natural conditions. Reverse-engineering the brain might enable us to design artificial systems with the
 same capabilities. My laboratory uses a data-driven system identification approach to tackle this reverse-engineering problem. Our approach consists of four broad stages. First, we use functional MRI to measure brain activity while people watch naturalistic
 movies. We divide these data into two parts, one use to fit models and one for testing model predictions. Second, we use a system identification framework (based on multiple linearizing feature spaces) to model activity measured at each point in the brain.
 Third, we inspect the most accurate models to understand how the brain represents low-, mid- and high-level information in the movies. Finally, we use the estimated models to decode brain activity, reconstructing the structural and semantic
 content in the movies. Any effort to reverse-engineer the brain is inevitably limited by the spatial and temporal resolution of brain measurements, and at this time the resolution of human brain measurements is relatively poor. Still, as measurement technology
 progresses this framework could inform development of biologically-inspired computer vision systems, and it could aid in development of practical new brain reading technologies.
Jack Gallant is Chancellor's Professor of Psychology at the University of California at Berkeley. He is affiliated with the graduate programs in Bioengineering, Biophysics, Neuroscience and Vision Science. He received his Ph.D. from Yale University and did
 post-doctoral work at the California Institute of Technology and Washington University Medical School. His research program focuses on computational modeling of the human brain. These models accurately describe how the brain encodes information during complex,
 naturalistic tasks, and they show how information about the external and internal world are mapped systematically across the surface of the cerebral cortex. These models can also be used to decode information in the brain in order to
 reconstruct mental experiences. Gallant's brain decoding algorithm was one of Times Magazine's Inventions of the Year in 2011, and he appears frequently on radio and television. Further information about ongoing work in the Gallant lab, links to talks and
 papers, and links to an online interactive brain viewer can be found at the lab web page:http://gallantlab.org.
