 Welcome to fast.ai's 7 week course, Practical Deep Learning For Coders, Part 1, taught by Jeremy Howard (Kaggle's #1 competitor 2 years running, and founder of Enlitic). Learn how to build state of the art models without needing graduate-level mathbut also without dumbing anything down. Oh and one other thing... it's totally free!
 When you're done here, head over to part 2, Cutting Edge Deep Learning for Coders, to continue your learning.
 This 7-week course is designed for anyone with at least a year of coding experience, and some memory of high-school math. You will start with step onelearning how to get a GPU server online suitable for deep learningand go all the way through to creating state of the art, highly practical, models for computer vision, natural language processing, and recommendation systems. There are around 20 hours of lessons, and you should plan to spend around 10 hours a week for 7 weeks to complete the material. The course is based on lessons recorded during the first certificate course at The Data Institute at USF. Part 2 was taught at the Data Institute from Feb 27, 2017, and is available here.
 I’ve tried (and if I’m honest) failed to scale the steep deep learning curve many times. I realise with hindsight it was the equations that were preventing me from becoming a deep learning practitioner. Jeremy brought me up to speed with the state-of-the-art, and within two weeks I was in the top half of the leaderboard for three Kaggle competitions.
 If you are looking to venture into the Deep learning field, look no further and take this course. It is very hands-on and adopts a top-down approach, which means everyone irrespective of varying knowledge can get started with implementing Deep learning models immediately. Another major factor why this course is very appealing is its emphasis on social relevance. That is, how can we use this awesome technology to serve the world better?
 This course filled a gap I couldn't find anywhere elsethere really is no other source where I could learn from a 'code first' perspective. This means you can prod, poke, and cajole these networks in different ways, and see how they respond. You can quickly feel an intuitive perspective growing as you explore.
 I teach machine learning in a master’s degree program. After this course, I cannot ignore the new developments in deep learningI will devote one third of my machine learning course to the subject. Also, I now have the tools to apply deep learning models to real world problems.
 It was very empowering to be able to start training a model within minutes downloading the Jupyter notebooks. Jeremy and Rachel were excellent instructors and the content was high quality and enlightening. It was very cool to be able to read blogposts about the latest Deep Learning research and actually be able to understand it. I was surprised to be able to match academic results from just 2 years ago with pretty simple architectures.
 I'm a CEO, not a coder, so the idea that I'd be able to create a GPU deep learning server in the cloud meant learning a lot of new thingsbut with all the help on the wiki and from the instructors and community on the forum I did it! Jeremy is an incredible instructor and is able to make what might seem like a difficult subject completely accessible.
 Sometimes I feared whether I would be able to solve any deep learning problems, as all the research papers I read were very mathy beyond reach of simple intuitive terms. But Jeremy and Rachel (Course Professors) believe in the theory of 'Simple is Powerful', by virtue of which anyone who takes this course will be able to confidently understand the simple techniques behind the 'magic' Deep Learning.
 Running a company is extremely time intensive, so I was a weary of taking on the commitment of the course. It was definitely worth it, though. It smashed my preconceptions about the technological obstructions to doing deep learning, and showed again and again examples where just a small subset of the training data and just a few epochs of training on standard GPU hardware could get most of the way towards a really good model
 It can take years to develop the necessary skills and knowledge for Deep Learning, especially without the support of mentors and peers. Not only did Jeremy teach us the most valuable methods and practices, he provided us with an invaluable community and environment. The course exceeded my expectations and showed me first hand how both Deep Learning and ourselves could change the world for better.
