 by a sparse bag-of-words representation. There is now a lot of work, including
 at Stanford, which goes beyond this by adopting a distributed
 embedding" or vector space representation of each word or document.
 deep learning and natural language processing has in particular aimed at
 networks for parsing, paraphrase detection of short phrases and longer
 relations, and bilingual phrase pairs, all of which are useful
Samuel R. Bowman, Gabor Angeli, Christopher Potts, and Christopher D. Manning. 2015. A large annotated corpus for learning natural language inference. In Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP 2015). [pdf] [corpus page] 
Samuel R. Bowman, Christopher D. Manning, and Christopher Potts. 2015. Tree-structured composition in neural networks without tree-structured architectures. arXiv manuscript 1506.04834. [pdf] 
Samuel R. Bowman, Christopher Potts, and Christopher D. Manning. 2015. Recursive Neural Networks Can Learn Logical Semantics. Proceedings of the 3rd Workshop on Continuous Vector Space Models and their Compositionality. [pdf] [code and data] 
Samuel R. Bowman, Christopher Potts, and Christopher D. Manning. 2015. Learning Distributed Word Representations for Natural Logic Reasoning. Proceedings of the AAAI Spring Symposium on Knowledge Representation and Reasoning. 
Danqi Chen and Christopher Manning. 2014. A Fast and Accurate Dependency
Andrew Ng and Chris Potts. 2013. Recursive Deep Models for Semantic
 Mengqiu Wang and Christopher D. Manning, "Effect of Non-linear Deep Architecture in Sequence Labeling", ICML 2013 Workshop on Deep Learning for Audio, Speech and Language Processing
 Richard Socher, Jeffrey Pennington, Eric Huang, Andrew Y. Ng, and Christopher D. Manning, "Semi-Supervised Recursive Autoencoders for Predicting Sentiment Distributions". EMNLP 2011.
 Richard Socher, Cliff Lin, Andrew Y. Ng, and Christopher D. Manning, "Parsing Natural Scenes and Natural Language with Recursive Neural Networks". ICML 2011 (Distinguished Application Paper Award)
 Richard Socher, Christopher D. Manning, Andrew Y. Ng, "Learning Continuous Phrase Representations and Syntactic Parsing with Recursive Neural Networks". NIPS Deep Learning and Unsupervised Feature Learning Workshop 2010.
