 This site requires Javascript in order to view all its content. Please enable Javascript in order to access all the functionality of this web site. Here are the instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
The NVIDIA Deep Learning Institute (DLI) offers hands-on training for developers, data scientists, and researchers looking to solve the world’s most challenging problems with deep learning.
Through self-paced online labs and instructor-led workshops, DLI provides training on the latest techniques for designing, training, and deploying neural networks across a variety of application domains. Students will explore widely used open-source frameworks as well as NVIDIA’s latest GPU-accelerated deep learning platforms.
The DLI provides instructor-led technical training onsite at organizations and events, designed to cover the foundations of deep learning or specific application domains. We offer full-day workshops that cover a range of deep learning topics for varied levels of expertise. Request one of the workshops below or customize your own.
This full-day workshop covers the foundations of deep learning and offers hands-on training in Image Classification, Object Detection, and Neural Network Deployment using popular frameworks.
This full-day workshop explores how to automate creation of digital content, including training a neural network to generate images of handwritten digits, transfer the style of an image to another image, and automate character movement.
NVIDIA partners with leading academic institutions to develop downloadable courseware covering the academic theory and application of deep learning on GPUs.
The DLI Teaching Kit addresses a wide range of machine learning topics to enable educators to empower their students with AI skillsets. Other Teaching Kits include Accelerated Computing and Robotics.
What’s the difference between AI, ML, and DL? | NVIDIA Blog | Read >
What’s the difference between DL training and inference? | NVIDIA Blog | Read >
Deep Learning in a Nutshell: Core Concepts | NVIDIA Developer Blog | Read >
Deep Learning in a Nutshell: Sequence Learning | NVIDIA Developer Blog | Read >
Deep Learning in a Nutshell: Reinforcement Learning | NVIDIA Developer Blog | Read >
Where Deep Learning Goes Next, How AI Will Revolutionize Driving, How AI Can Improve Brain Tumor Treatment, and more | NVIDIA AI Podcast | Listen >
What is a GPU, and How Are Companies Using Them Now | TechEmergence | Listen >
 To inquire about bringing hands-on technical training to your organization or event, please complete the form below. If interested in DLI training resources, check out the self-paced online labs and workshop schedule for an event near you.
