Dive into the future of data science and implement intelligent systems using deep learning with Python
Deep learning is the next step to machine learning with a more advanced implementation. Currently, it’s not established as an industry standard, but is heading in that direction and brings a strong promise of being a game changer when dealing with raw unstructured data. Deep learning is currently one of the best providers of solutions regarding problems in image recognition, speech recognition, object recognition, and natural language processing. Developers can avail the benefits of building AI programs that, instead of using hand coded rules, learn from examples how to solve complicated tasks. With deep learning being used by many data scientists, deeper neural networks are evaluated for accurate results. 
This course takes you from basic calculus knowledge to understanding backpropagation and its application for training in neural networks for deep learning and understand automatic differentiation. Through the course, we will cover thorough training in convolutional, recurrent neural networks and build up the theory that focuses on supervised learning and integrate into your product offerings such as search, image recognition, and object processing. Also, we will examine the performance of the sentimental analysis model and will conclude with the introduction of Tensorflow. 
By the end of this course, you can start working with deep learning right away. This course will make you confident about its implementation in your current work as well as further research.
This course is for developers who are looking for free, open source deep learning solutions for media (image and text) classification. It is also for senior undergrad and first year grad students beginning in the field of deep learning.
Exhibit the powerful mechanism of seamless CPU and GPU usage with Theano
Understand the usage and innards of Keras to beautify your neural network designs
Discover the methods of image classification and harness object recognition using deep learning
Get to know recurrent neural networks for the textual sentimental analysis model
 © 2017 O’Reilly Media, Inc. All trademarks and registered trademarks appearing on oreilly.com are the property of their respective owners.
