 Fourteen US and Canadian cancer institutes will use International Business Machines Corp.'s Watson computer system to choose therapies based on a tumor's genetic fingerprints, the company said on Tuesday, the latest step toward bringing personalized cancer treatments to more patients. Oncology is the first specialty where matching therapy to DNA has improved outcomes for some patients, inspiring the "precision medicine initiative" President Barack Obama announced in January
 DigitalJournal.com Time running out to enter the IBM Watson Mobile Developer Challenge DigitalJournal.com A strong use case will take advantage of deep natural language processing and benefit from a continuously learning system, while providing...
 Analytics: Detect the Expected  Discover the Unexpected B-EYE-Network In order to fully leverage the data discovery and visual analytics platforms, it is highly recommended to enrich your data assets and augment them with useful annotations using...
 (PRWEB) April 10, 2014 The report "Natural Language Processing (NLP) Market [IVR, OCR, Pattern Recognition, Auto Coding, Text Analytics, Speech Analytics, Machine Translation, Information Extraction, Question Answer, Report Generation] - Worldwide...
 Is there a subtle difference between training a neural network, vs training a deep learner? Are different algorithms used? As someone who's fairly co... (Is 'deep learning' basically just neural networks with many, many hidden layers?
 @PsychSignal very interesting views. wondering how do you guys measure sentiments? (Commented on StockTwits: a natural language processing engine custom built to detect financial sentiment.
 original:http://nlp.stanford.edu/projects/DeepLearningInNaturalLanguageProcessing.shtml Overview Deep learning has recently shown much promise for NLP applications. Unlike most approaches in which documents or ...
Sharing your scoops to your social media accounts is a must to distribute your curated content. Not only will it drive traffic and leads through your content, but it will help show your expertise with your followers.
Integrating your curated content to your website or blog will allow you to increase your website visitors’ engagement, boost SEO and acquire new visitors. By redirecting your social media traffic to your website, Scoop.it will also help you generate more qualified traffic and leads from your curation work.
Distributing your curated content through a newsletter is a great way to nurture and engage your email subscribers will developing your traffic and visibility.
Creating engaging newsletters with your curated content is really easy. 
 You can enter several keywords and you can refine them whenever you want. Our suggestion engine uses more signals but entering a few keywords here will rapidly give you great content to curate.
