 Deep learning is providing exciting solutions for medical image analysis problems and is seen as a key method for future applications. This book gives a clear understanding of the principles and methods of neural network and deep learning concepts, showing how the algorithms that integrate deep learning as a core component have been applied to medical image detection, segmentation and registration, and computer-aided analysis, using a wide variety of application areas. 
 Deep Learning for Medical Image Analysis is a great learning resource for academic and industry researchers in medical imaging analysis, and for graduate students taking courses on machine learning and deep learning for computer vision and medical image computing and analysis.
 Covers common research problems in medical image analysis and their challenges
 Describes deep learning methods and the theories behind approaches for medical image analysis
 Teaches how algorithms are applied to a broad range of application areas, including Chest X-ray, breast CAD, lung and chest, microscopy and pathology, etc.
 7.1. Deep Voting: A Robust Approach Toward Nucleus Localization in Microscopy Images 
 7.2. Structured Regression for Robust Cell Detection Using Convolutional Neural Network 
 Chapter 8: Deep Learning Tissue Segmentation in Cardiac Histopathology Images 
 Chapter 9: Deformable MR Prostate Segmentation via Deep Feature Learning and Sparse Patch Matching 
 Chapter 10: Characterization of Errors in Deep Learning-Based Brain MRI Segmentation 
 Chapter 11: Scalable High Performance Image Registration Framework by Unsupervised Deep Feature Representations Learning 
 Chapter 12: Convolutional Neural Networks for Robust and Real-Time 2-D/3-D Registration 
 Chapter 13: Chest Radiograph Pathology Categorization via Transfer Learning 
 13.3. Extracting Deep Features from a Pre-Trained CNN Model 
 13.4. Extending the Representation Using Feature Fusion and Selection 
 Chapter 14: Deep Learning Models for Classifying Mammogram Exams Containing Unregistered Multi-View Images and Segmentation Maps of Lesions 
 Chapter 15: Randomized Deep Learning Methods for Clinical Trial Enrichment and Design in Alzheimers Disease 
 Chapter 16: Deep Networks and Mutual Information Maximization for Cross-Modal Medical Image Synthesis 
 Chapter 17: Natural Language Processing for Large-Scale Medical Image Analysis Using Deep Learning 
 17.5. Predicting Presence or Absence of Frequent Disease Types 
 S. Kevin Zhou, Ph.D. is currently a Principal Key Expert Scientist at Siemens Healthcare Technology Center, leading a team of full time research scientists and students dedicated to researching and developing innovative solutions for medical and industrial imaging products. His research interests lie in computer vision and machine/deep learning and their applications to medical image analysis, face recognition and modeling, etc. He has published over 150 book chapters and peer-reviewed journal and conference papers, registered over 250 patents and inventions, written two research monographs, and edited three books. He has won multiple technology, patent and product awards, including R&D 100 Award and Siemens Inventor of the Year. He is an editorial board member for Medical Image Analysis journal and a fellow of American Institute of Medical and Biological Engineering (AIMBE).
 Hayit Greenspan is a Tenured Professor at the Biomedical Engineering Dept. Faculty of Engineering, Tel-Aviv University. She was a visiting Professor at the Radiology Dept. Stanford University, and is currently affiliated with the International Computer Science Institute (ICSI) at Berkeley. Dr. Greenspan’s research focuses on image modeling and analysis, deep learning, and content-based image retrieval. Research projects include: Brain MRI research (structural and DTI), CT and X-ray image analysis - automated detection to segmentation and characterization. Dr. Greenspan has over 150 publications in leading international journals and conference proceedings. She has received several awards and is a coauthor on several patents. Currently her Lab is funded for Deep Learning in Medical Imaging by the INTEL Collaborative Research Institute for Computational Intelligence (ICRI-CI). Dr. Greenspan is a member of several journal and conference program committees, including SPIE medical imaging, IEEE_ISBI and MICCAI. She is an Associate Editor for the IEEE Trans on Medical Imaging (TMI) journal. Recently she was the Lead guest editor for an IEEE-TMI special Issue on "Deep Learning in Medical Imaging”, May 2016.
 Dinggang Shen is a Professor of Radiology, Biomedical Research Imaging Center (BRIC), Computer Science, and Biomedical Engineering in the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (UNC-CH). He is currently directing the Center for Image Informatics and Analysis, the Image Display, Enhancement, and Analysis (IDEA) Lab in the Department of Radiology, and also the medical image analysis core in the BRIC. He was a tenure-track assistant professor in the University of Pennsylvanian (UPenn), and a faculty member in the Johns Hopkins University. Dr. Shen’s research interests include medical image analysis, computer vision, and pattern recognition. He has published more than 700 papers in the international journals and conference proceedings. He serves as an editorial board member for six international journals. He has served in the Board of Directors, The Medical Image Computing and Computer Assisted Intervention (MICCAI) Society, in 2012-2015.
 HomeAboutAboutCareersElsevier ConnectInformation forAuthorsEditorsLibrariansReviewersStoreBooks and JournalsAuthor WebshopSolutionsR&D SolutionsResearch IntelligenceClinical SolutionsEducation SolutionsResearch PlatformsAll SolutionsSupport Center
We are always looking for ways to improve customer experience on Elsevier.com. 
We would like to ask you for a moment of your time to fill in a short questionnaire, at the end of your visit. 
If you decide to participate, a new browser tab will open so you can complete the survey after you have completed your visit to this website. Thanks in advance for your time.
