 “Today’s models can be trained on huge quantities of data, but that’s not enough,” says Bengio, who together with LeCun and Google’s Geoffrey Hinton is one of the original musketeers of deep learning. “We need to discover learning algorithms that can take better advantage of all this unlabeled data that’s sitting out there.”
 “On our chip we bring the data as close as possible to the processing units, and move the data as little as possible,” Vivienne Sze. When run on an ordinary GPU, neural networks fetch the same image data multiple times. The MIT chip has 168 processing engines, each with its own dedicated memory nearby.
 "A Deep and Autoregressive Approach for Topic Modeling of Multimodal Data". In this paper Hugo Larochelle explores how to successfully apply and extend DocNADE to multimodal data, such as simultaneous image classification and annotation.
 Meet Partpic: After being licensed by a manufacturing company, PartPic obtains 360 degree photos and metadata of every part in the company’s inventory. A user can then can takes a photo of a specific part and PartPic’s software automatically identifies the name and model number of that part.
 Learning Physical Intuition of Block Towers by Example - hear from Adam Lerer, Research Engineer at Facebook AI Research on exploring the ability of deep feedforward models to learn intuitive physics.
 Conservation Metrics goal is to improve conservation by providing powerful new tools to monitor wildlife status, distribution, and population trends. They provide rigorous data for impact assessments, cost-effective tools for measuring ecological changes after restoration and management actions or development projects.
 “The broad goal is to become the emotion layer of the Internet,” says Affectiva co-founder Rana el Kaliouby, a former MIT postdoc who invented the technology. “We believe there’s an opportunity to sit between any human-to-computer, or human-to-human interaction point, capture data, and use it to enrich the user experience.”
 Tony Jebara and colleagues at Columbia University will work with oceanographers to understand what has caused an unusual plankton-like species to rapidly invade the Arabian Sea food chain, threatening fisheries that sustain more than 100 million people living at the sea's edge.
 Nervana Systems wants to make deep learning more accessible by developing custom hardware built to process all that data. Hear their latest developments from CEO Naveen Rao in a panel session at the summit.
 "The easiest place for Amazon to bring its expertise to bear is in the warehouses, because that's where Amazon really excels," Hawkins said. "If they can reduce costs, they can show that on the store shelves and move Whole Foods away from the Whole Paycheck image."
 Discover advances in deep learning & smart artificial intelligence from the world's leading innovators. Learn from industry experts & academics in speech & image recognition, neural networks & big data. Explore how deep learning will impact communications, manufacturing, healthcare & transportation.
 The summit will showcase the opportunities of advancing trends in deep learning and their impact on business & society. Will smart artificial intelligence finally rival human intelligence? Learn the latest technological advancements & industry trends from a global line-up of experts.
 A unique opportunity to interact with business leaders, influential technologists, data scientists & entrepreneurs leading the deep learning revolution. Learn from & connect with 200+ industry innovators sharing best practices to advance the smart artificial intelligence revolution.
 The Renaissance Boston Waterfront Hotel is located in the heart of Boston's Seaport District and overlooks the beautiful harbour. The modern hotel is only 1.3 miles from Faneuil Hall and is only minutes away from Logan International Airport.
"Excellent event. Good combination of highly technical and broader presentation that gave me a good understanding of the current state and potential of the Deep Learning" RE•WORK Deep Learning Summit San Fran 2015 
"I’ve been to countless IoT events, and this was hands down one of the most interesting. It was nice to see actual people building actual connected products giving their perspective." RE•WORK IoT Summit Boston 2015 
"RE•WORK provided a unique mix of technology, from the exploration of latest scientific findings to startups that can make them a reality" RE•WORK Technology Summit London 2014
 The Deep Learning Summit is at the forefront of AI. Explore the impact of image & speech recognition as a disruptive trend in business and industry. How can multiple levels of representation and abstraction help to make sense of data such as images, sound, and text. Hear the latest insights and technology advancements from industry leaders, startups and researchers. 
 The next generation in predictive intelligence. Anticipating user & business needs to alert & advise logical steps to increase efficiency. The summit will showcase the opportunities of advancing trends in AI Assistants & their impact on business & society. What impact will predictive intelligence have on business efficiency & personal organization? 
 Following day 1 of the summit, attendees will come together for an evening of networking, discussions and fine food & wine. Mix with leaders on topics including NLP, speech recognition, reinforcement learning and image analysis, as well as applications in sectors including manufacturing, transport, healthcare, finance and security.
 Want to learn about #MachineIntelligence over a nice dinner? Join us! #womenintech #Montreal https://t.co/9WJraCi02m https://t.co/H1LesxpoOZ
 AI Is About to Drastically Change #AI #tech #deeplearning https://t.co/ejdSzrKsdf https://t.co/vcD0jE3XDx
 Women of Washington: Data science and machine learning in government #women #machinelearning #tech… https://t.co/Jej9fZfW5C
