Deep learning is the most interesting and powerful machine learning technique right now.
Top deep learning libraries are available on the Python ecosystem like Theano and TensorFlow. Tap into their power in a few lines of code using Keras, the best-of-breed applied deep learning library.
In this mega Ebook is written in the friendly Machine Learning Mastery style that youre used to, learn exactly how to get started and apply deep learning to your own machine learning projects. After purchasing you will get:
 The book is excellent! The best source so far I found that shows how to use deep learning in Python. Very well explained material with a lot of examples. Highly recommend this book if you want to apply deep learning in practice.
Deep learning techniques are so powerful because they learn the best way to represent the problem while learning how to solve the problem.
Representation learning is perhaps the biggest differentiation between deep learning models and classical machine learning algorithm.
It is the power of representation learning that is spurring such great creativity in the way the techniques are being used. For example:
Deep learning models are being used for very difficult problems and making progress, like colorizing image and videos based on the context in the scene.
Deep learning models are being used in bold new ways, such as cutting the head off a network trained on one problem and tuning it for a completely different problem, and getting impressive results.
Combinations of deep learning models are being used to both identify objects in photographs and then generate textual descriptions of those objects, a complex multi-media problem that was previously thought to require large artificial intelligence systems.
Deep learning is hot, it is delivering results and now is the time to get involved. But where do you start?
Deep learning looks like a hard field to get started in.
And in many ways it is hard to get started. Hard enough that many people try and quickly give up.
Because they are told that they must already be masters in a laundry list of academic disciplines.
For example, a common response to the question how do I get started in deep learning might be:
Develop a strong grounding in statistics, probability, linear algebra, multivariate statistics and calculus.
Develop a deep knowledge of modern machine learning algorithms and techniques.
Study and become one with the mathematical theory of each deep learning algorithm and a bunch of related techniques for using them.
Oh and if there is time find a library and start applying deep learning to your problem.
It could take a decade or more to follow this advice and that would be a decade delay that you cannot afford.
If I had followed the advice given to beginner developers (study discrete math, start with assembler, etc.) I would never have started developing software as a profession.
Dont let this same first principles fallacy stop you from following your growing interest and passion in deep learning.
There is a much easier path that is just right for you. Flip the script.
Deep learning is a tool that you can use on your machine learning projects. It does not have to be a theoretical academic pursuit that you study in gritty detail.
You can get started in deep learning by selecting one of the best-of-breed deep learning libraries and start developing models.
You will not understand all of the internals to begin with, but you will very quickly learn how to develop and evaluate deep learning models for a variety of machine learning problems. And Start delivering value. Oh and as you may suspect, you probably dont ever need to understand all of the internals to get excellent results.
The best kept secret of deep learning (and even broader machine learning) is that the applied side is quite shallow. It does not take you long to be able to start using the tools quite expertly on your own projects.
The caveat is that you need to bring some rigor in terms of process to ensure that you results are robust (e.g. careful test harness design) and that your solutions are suitable for the problems you are solving (e.g. careful framing of the problem).
The platform for getting started in applied deep learning is Python.
Python is a fully featured general purpose programming language, unlike R and Matlab. It is also quick and easy to write and understand, unlike C++ and Java.
The SciPy stack in Python is a mature and quickly expanding platform for scientific and numerical computing. The platform hosts libraries such as scikit-learn the general purpose machine learning library that can be used with your deep learning models.
It is because of these benefits of the Python ecosystem that two top numerical libraries for deep learning were developed for Python, Theano and the newer TensorFlow library released by Google (and adopted recently by the Google DeepMind research group).
Theano and TensorFlow are two top numerical libraries for developing deep learning models, but are too technical and complex for the average practitioner. They are intended more for research and development teams and academics interested in developing wholly new deep learning algorithms.
The saving grace is the Keras library for deep learning, that is written in pure Python, wraps and provides a consistent agnostic interface to Theano and TensorFlow and is aimed at machine learning practitioners that are interested in creating and evaluating deep learning models.
It is a little over one year old and is clearly the best-of-breed library for getting started with deep learning because of both the speed at which you can develop models and the numerical power it is built upon.
The fastest way to get a handle on deep learning and get productive at developing models for your own machine learning problems is to practice.
You can use a tutorial-based approach to learn the basics of different neural network models and feel out the features of the Keras API.
Very quickly you can start to pull together this knowledge and take on larger, fuller and more complicated deep learning projects.
You are actually writing code and developing deep learning models rather then reading about it or studying theory.
Each completed small project provides a working base for further investigation or pivoting into a new problem.
You amass a catalog of working code for deep learning models and library API that you can dip into and pull together on new projects very quickly.
This is the approach that you can use to rapidly get up-to-speed with applied deep learning in Python with the Keras library and start tackling your own predictive modeling problems with deep learning.
It is also the approach that you can follow in my new ebook Deep Learning With Python.
This book was designed using for you as a developer to rapidly get up to speed with applied deep learning in Python using the best-of-breed library Keras.
The ebook is comprised of lessons and projects and uses a step-by-step tutorial approach throughout.
The goal is to get you using Keras to quickly create your first neural networks as quickly as possible, then guide you through the finer points of developing deeper models and models for computer vision and natural language problems.
This ebook is your guide to developing and evaluating deep learning models in your own machine learning projects.
Lets take a closer look at the breakdown of what you will discover inside this ebook.
Everything You Need To Know to Develop Deep Learning Models in Python
This ebook was written around two themes designed to get you started and using deep learning effectively and quickly.
Lessons: Learn how the sub-tasks of applied deep learning map onto the Keras Python library and the best practice way of working through each task.
Projects: Tie together all of the knowledge from the lessons by working through case study predictive modeling problems.
Here is an overview of the step-by-step lessons you will complete:
Each lesson was designed to be completed in about 30 minutes by the average developer.
Here is an overview of the 7 end-to-end projects you will complete:
Project 01: Develop Large Models on GPUs Cheaply in the Cloud.
Each project was designed to be completed in about 60 minutes by the average developer.
Clear algorithm descriptions that help you to understand the principles that underlie each technique.
Step-by-step deep learning tutorials to show you exactly how to apply each method.
End-to-end deep learning projects that show you exactly how to tie the pieces together and get a result.
Python source code recipes for every example in the book so that you can run the tutorial and project code in seconds.
Digital Ebook in PDF format so that you can have the book open side-by-side with the code and see exactly how each example works.
Top machine learning textbooks to deepen your foundation of artificial neural networks and deep learning, if you crave more.
The best places online where you can ask your challenging questions and actually get a response.
The high-performance computing platform that underlies deep learning in Python called Theano.
The second optional framework that underlies deep learning in Python called Google TensorFlow.
The the best library for deep learning in python for developers called Keras.
The development of deep learning models on Amazon cloud services to harness the speed of GPU hardware for less than $1 per hour.
The basics of multilayer artificial neural networks needed to use them in practice.
The 6-step process to develop your first neural network with Keras in minutes.
The 3 methods that you can use to evaluate the performance of your neural networks, including one that gives the most robust estimates.
The 2 best features of scikit-learn to leverage when developing neural networks with Keras, and the one that will save you hours.
The 3 end-to-end projects that show you how to use Multilayer Perceptron networks for predictive modeling problems.
The 2 formats that you can use to save your network structure to file and the HDF5 standard that you can use to save network weights for later use.
The simple method to ensure that your results are not lost if your multi-day run crashes half-way through.
The simple visualization technique that you can use to check if your deep learning model is over learning or under learning your problem.
The simple and clever technique that you can use to reduce overfitting.
The 2 methods you can use to dynamically change learning rate while training that gives you a lift in performance.
The basics of convolutional neural networks needed to use them in practice such as their structure and learning method.
The problem of handwritten digit recognition and how to solve it using convolutional neural networks.
The clever approach of image augmentation and 6 techniques you can use to improve the generalization of your models.
The problem of object recognition in photographs and how to solve it using convolutional neural networks of increasing size.
The application of convolutional neural networks to text data and how to use them to predict the sentiment of movie reviews from the text alone.
The basics of recurrent neural networks needed to use them in practice including their structure and the most popular type.
The problem of time series prediction and a clever technique to improve the performance for Multilayer Perceptrons on this problem.
The LSTM recurrent neural network and the 5 ways it can be used to model time series prediction problems.
The clever framing of sentiment prediction as the classification of a sequence of words and how to use LSTMs to solve it.
The example problem of predicting the next letter of the alphabet and its use to give you deeper insight into how LSTMs work.
The invention of new sentences for Alice In Wonderland by an LSTM network trained on the whole book.
Each recipe presented in the book is standalone, meaning that you can copy and paste it into your project and use it immediately.
You get one Python script (.py) for each example provided in the book.
This means that you can follow along and compare your answers to a known working implementation of each algorithm in the provided Python files.
This helps a lot to speed up your progress when working through the details of a specific task.
I live in Australia with my wife and son and love to write and code.
I have a computer science background as well as a Masters and Ph.D. degree in Artificial Intelligence.
I’ve written books on algorithms, won and ranked in the top 10% in machine learning competitions, consulted for startups and spent a long time working on systems for forecasting tropical cyclones. (yes I have written tons of code that runs operationally)
I get a lot of satisfaction helping developers get started and get really good at machine learning.
I teach an unconventional top-down and results-first approach to machine learning where we start by working through tutorials and problems, then later wade into theory as we need it.
I'm here to help if you ever have any questions. I want you to be awesome at machine learning.
Do you want to take a closer look at the book? Download a free sample chapter PDF.
Enter your email address and your sample chapter will be sent to your inbox.
 This book is very practical and it has many code examples with the objective of getting you started quickly. It skips the mathematics aspect of ML which is useful because it explains ML concepts in practical terms without getting buried in the math. I am a software developer and I have been recommending this book to my developer friends to help them get passed the road blocks and start using ML with practical applications in the real world.
I am a software developer and I have been recommending this book to my developer friends to help them get passed the road blocks and start using ML with practical applications in the real world.
 A nice introduction to Deep Learning with Keras. I found the book quite didactic and entertaining. Theano and Tensorflow are explored briefly in some specific chapters at the beginning of the book, but most of the material covers how to use Keras effectively with CNNs and RNNs.
I found the Time Series and model improvement chapters specially interesting. I recommend this book for newbies willing to get a soft landing into Deep Learning with Python&Keras.
 I think this is Jasons best book to date. Starting with no previous deep learning experience and little familiarity with Python, over the course of a weekend I was able to develop and train a Convolutional Neural Net that achieved a 0.8% error rate on the famous MNIST digit recognition task (best-in-class is 0.23%). If youre struggling to get up to speed with deep learning, this book is a great way to get started. Highly recommended.
 This is a truly excellent hands-on, no-nonsense book on deep learning.  If you want to quickly jump into the bandwagon of deep learning without having to worry about the nuts and bolts, the linear algebra, calculus, etc, this is the book.
The authors decision to pick TensorFlow is also a very wise one. Data scientists ought to have this book as a companion.
Plus, as you should expect of any great product on the market, every Machine Learning Mastery Ebookcomes with the surest sign of confidence: my gold-standard 100% money-back guarantee.
If you're not happy with your purchase of any of the Machine Learning Mastery Ebooks,just email me within 90 days of buying, and I'll give you your money back ASAP.
The industry is demanding skills in machine learning.The market wants people that can deliver results, not write academic papers.
Business knows what these skills are worth and are paying sky-high starting salaries.
A Data Scientists Salary Begins at:$100,000 to $150,000.A Machine Learning Engineers Salary is Even Higher.
(1) A Theoretical Textbook for $100+ ...it's boring, math-heavy and you'll probably never finish it.
(2) An On-site Boot Camp for $10,000+ ...it's full of young kids, you must travel and it can take months.
(3) A Higher Degree for $100,000+ ...it's expensive, takes years, and you'll be an academic.
For the Hands-On Skills You Get...And the Speed of Results You See...And the Low Price You Pay...
You think you have all the time in the world, but...
Professionals Use Training To Stay On Top Of Their FieldGet The Training You Need!
Perhaps you can double check that your details are correct, just in case of a typo?
Perhaps you could try a different payment method, such as PayPal or Credit Card?
Perhaps you could try my alternative secure payment processor, click here?
Perhaps you're able to talk to your bank, just in case they blocked the transaction?
If you're still having difficulty, please contact me and I can help investigate further.
The books are written for immediate use, rather than references to sit on the shelf.
My students like to have the PDF open on their screen next to their editor so they can copy-paste code.
Also, the books are updated often to reflect changes to APIs. The field is moving very fast.
This is by design and I put a lot of thought into it. My rationale is as follows:
I use LaTeX to layout the text and code to give a professional look and I am afraid that EBook readers would mess this up.
The increase in supported formats would create a maintenance headache that would take a large amount of time away from updating the books and working on new books.
Most critically, reading on an e-reader or iPad is antithetical to the book-open-next-to-code-editor approach the PDF format was chosen to support.
My materials are playbooks intended to be open on the computer, next to a text editor and a command line. They are not reference texts to be read away from the computer.
Books are usually updated once every month or two to fix bugs, typos and keep abreast of API changes.
Contact me anytime and check if there have been updates. Let me know what version of the book you have (version is listed on the copyright page).
After you complete your purchase you will receive an email with a link to download your bundle.
The download will include the book or books and any bonus material.
My best advice is to pick a topic that most interests you and start there.
Sorry, I cannot create custom bundles of books for you, it would create a maintenance nightmare for me. I’m sure you can understand.
You can see the full catalog of my books and bundles here.
Sorry, I no longer distribute evaluation copies of my books due to some past abuse of the privilege.
If you are a teacher or lecturer, I’m happy to offer you a student discount.
Email me with the details of your order (order number or email address used to make the purchase) and details you would like to appear on the invoice (your name, company name and address).
I will create a PDF invoice for you and email it back.
All books are EBooks that you can download immediately after you complete your purchase.
All books are EBooks that you can download immediately after you complete your purchase.
I support purchases from any country via PayPal or Credit Card.
Note: I only offer discounts on individual books, not on the bundles. This is because the bundles are already heavily discounted.
If you are a student, teacher or a retiree please contact me and ask for the discount.
If I do have a special, such as around the launch of a new book, I only offer it to past customers and subscribers on my email list.
I do offer book bundles that offer a discount for a collection of related books.
Please contact me directly with your purchase details (order number or email address used to make the purchase) and I will organize a refund.
Please contact me anytime with questions about machine learning or the books.
Also, each book has a final chapter on getting more help and further reading and points to resources that you can use to get more help.
My material requires that you have a programmers mindset of thinking in procedures and learning by doing.
You do not need to be an excellent programmer to read and learn about machine learning algorithms.
I teach using a top-down and results-first approach to machine learning. You will learn by doing, not learn by theory.
Any questions presented are explained in full and are only provided to make the explanation clearer, not more confusing.
If you are a reader of my blog posts, then you know enough to get started.
I do my best to lead you through what you need to know, step-by-step.
Most students finish the book in a few weeks by working through it during nights and weekends.
They have no deep explanations of theory, just working examples that are laser-focused on the information that you need to know to bring machine learning to your project.
My books are not for everyone, they are carefully designed for practitioners that need to get results, fast.
The books are a concentrated and more convenient version of what I put on the blog.
I design my books to be a combination of lessons and projects to teach you how to use a specific machine learning tool or library and then apply it to real predictive modeling problems.
The books get updated with bug fixes, updates for API changes and the addition of new chapters, and these updates are totally free.
I do put some of the book chapters on the blog as examples, but they are not tied to the surrounding chapters or the narrative that a book offers and do not offer the standalone code files.
With each book, you also get all of the source code files used in the book that you can use as recipes to jump-start your own predictive modeling problems.
The book “Master Machine Learning Algorithms” is for programmers and non-programmers alike that learn through worked examples. It teaches you how 10 top machine learning algorithms work, with worked examples in arithmetic, not code (and spreadsheets) that show how each model learns and makes predictions.
The book “Machine Learning Algorithms From Scratch” is for programmers that learn by writing code to understand. It provides step-by-step tutorials on how to implement top algorithms as well as how to load data, evaluate models and more. It has less on how the algorithms work, instead focusing exclusively on how to implement each in code.
Due to abuse of the privilege, I only support purchases by individuals.
This is by design. I used to have video content and I found the completion rate much lower.
I want you to put the material into practice. I have found that text-based tutorials are the best way of achieving this.
After reading and working through the tutorials you are far more likely to apply what you have learned.
Thanks for asking. I would love to help, but I just don't have the capacity.
I try to help as many people as possible through my blog and books.
The reason is that I am a small business and I want a direct relationship with you, my customer, so that I can offer personal support and send out updates about your book and new stuff I am working on.
It is possible that your link to download your purchase will expire after a few days.
Please contact me and I will resend you purchase receipt with an updated download link.
But, understand that all code was developed and provided for educational purposes only and that I take no responsibility for it, what it might do or how you might use it.
