In this page, you can find job listings and job announcements related to the deep learning field. In order to put your job announcement on this page, please get in touch with us via e-mail (l@gmail.com). When the position is filled please keep us informed, so we can remove the announcement:   ​
Assistant Professor – Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, Indiana University, Bloomington, IN USA,  Announcement date: 30 August 2017
The Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences at Indiana University – Bloomington seeks to fill a faculty position at the level of Assistant Professor (tenure-track) t as part of a major initiative to study learning across disciplinary boundaries, bridging the gap between human and machine learning. Individuals with integrated research programs on human learning that also include computational neuroscience, human neuroscience, cognitive or perceptual development and cognitive modeling, machine learning, or computer vision are especially encouraged to apply.
Director of Learning Sciences and Innovation  CILSS  University of Maryland University College, Maryland, Announcement date: 30 August 2017
The Center for Innovation in Learning and Student Success (CILSS) at UMUC seeks a Director of Learning Sciences and Innovation who has a strong interest in solving learning challenges in the higher education environment. This person will join a new team that will work with deans and faculty in academic departments on innovative pilots in a rapid prototyping atmosphere. The successful candidate will provide expertise on the design of evaluation studies, appropriate statistical methods, and new approaches to learning
Computer Vision and Deep Learning Research and Development  – HRL Laboratories, LLC, CA, Announcement date: 28 August 2017
HRL Laboratories is looking for candidates with US permanent resident or citizen status who are interested in research positions (full-time contractor, internship) in deep learning at Malibu, CA (http://www.hrl.com). The candidate must have a MS or Ph.D. in EE, Computer Science, Applied Math, or related fields. Primary job function is to perform R&D in computer vision, machine and deep learning, autonomous systems, and other areas.
Postdoc researcher/Deep learning for predictive analytics   IBM Research, Zurich, Announcement date: 8 August 2017
At IBM Research in Zurich, we are seeking an outstanding post-doctoral researcher for research in state-of-the-art predictive analytics applied to IT as well as industrial components and systems. Applying and expanding state of the art machine learning methods including deep learning and model fusion, our research aims at identifying degradation indicators from rich historical event logs and telemetry data, and using those to accurately predict future failures and performance degradation events in the field. This position is available from approximately September 2017 for a duration of 18 months. The successful candidate will enjoy an internationally competitive salary and work in a collaborative and creative group in an exclusive research environment. 
For full details and requirements, please visit https://www.zurich.ibm.com/careers/ and click on Postdoc researcher: Deep learning for predictive analytics.
The Department of Computer Science at Aarhus University aims to establish a machine learning research group. The department is expected to expand significantly (about 18 academic positions) over the next 5-6 years, and machine learning is one of the focus areas in the expansion. One or more positions as tenure-track assistant professor or associate professor are therefore available starting January 1st, 2018. The application deadline is September 15th, 2017. Additional details and instructions on how to apply are found at:
Applied Research Scientist / PayPal Machine Learning R&D – San Jose, CA, Announcement date: 2 August 2017
We are looking for a data scientist to join our deep learning research team for multiple applications in PayPal. Highly rewarding experience with significant impact to the business. Please see https://jobsearch.paypal-corp.com/en-US/job/applied-research-scientist/J3L2VQ7909XLBSWRMS4 for more details.
The KTH Royal Institute of Technology (www.kth.se) and Science for Life Laboratory (www.scilifelab.se) in Stockholm, Sweden are hiring a PhD student to develop theoretical advances in deep learning with applications in computer vision, medical data analysis, and natural language processing. It is a 4-year time-limited position with full funding and support for travel to conferences, etc. The application deadline is August 15. For a full description and requirements, please visit https://www.kth.se/en/om/work-at-kth/lediga-jobb/what:job/jobID:156210/where:4/.
Computer Vision / Machine Learning Software Developer   Matrox Imaging, Montreal, Announcement date: 27 July 2017
Based in Montreal, Quebec (Canada), Matroxs Imaging division provides software and hardware solutions to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and to integrators of machine vision systems. The software group develops sophisticated tools for the acquisition, the processing and the analysis of images. The algorithms in the Matrox Imaging Library (MIL) are renowned worldwide for their rapidity, robustness and reliability. They can locate objects, extract and precisely measure their features, identify and track parts using codes and string readers (OCR), perform 3D reconstruction and analysis, The Research and Innovation department is seeking creative and highly motivated software developers with expertise in computer vision, in image processing, and in machine learning. Visit our web site for more information (www.matrox.com)! Submit your resume online (https://www.matrox.com/hr/en/careers/) or by email at cv@matrox.com.
Computational Scientist  The Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor, Maine, Announcement date: 26 July 2017
The Jackson Laboratory in Bar Harbor, ME is seeking an exceptionally talented and highly motivated Computational Scientist to lead research efforts to use machine vision for mouse phenotyping. The successful candidate will lead the development of neural network and deep learning based intelligent systems critical for health and disease diagnosis and treatment. The project involves, but is not limited to, deriving quantitative measurements and classification of mouse behavioral patterns from video data, and integration of behavioral data with genomics, electrophysiology, and genetic data.  Please see: https://goo.gl/dfULTM
AI Senior Researcher  Fujitsu Laboratories, London , Announcement date: 26 July 2017
Fujitsu Laboratories of Europe has a couple of openings for an AI Researcher /  Senior Researcher positions in London, UK. Both positions require familiarity with some ML framework (e.g. sklearn, caffe, tensor-flow, etc) and good programming skills (preferably in Python). Moreover, both are permanent. For more information, please visit the following links: http://www.fujitsu.com/uk/about/local/corporate/subsidiaries/fle/careers/fle20170725.html and http://www.fujitsu.com/uk/about/local/corporate/subsidiaries/fle/careers/fle2017052502.html.
WinterLight Labs is a Toronto-based company which has developed cutting-edge software for objectively measuring cognitive impairment by automatically quantifying hundreds of aspects of speech and language using natural language processing algorithms and machine learning. We are seeking a Machine Learning Engineer ​to specialize in the development of automatic speech recognition (ASR) and machine learning (ML) models
We’re looking for an experienced Principal Data Scientist excited about using data and psychology to enhance storytelling, understand audiences, and bring out the best in each of us. Please click here for full job description.
Deep Learning Computer Vision engineer for Automotive  Navinfo , Eindhoven, Netherlands, Announcement date: 10 July 2017
Navinfo is the largest Digital Map Provider in China and third largest in the world.
As part of the Navinfo family our team at Mapscape in Eindhoven/Netherlands supports business units to create maps for autonomous driving as well as classic navigation maps. Our mission is to deliver innovative technology to further increase the degree of process automation.
Our core competence is the extraction of map related features from images by intense use of Deep Learning and Computer Vision. Part of our mission is to evaluate latest technology for use in map automation and support business units with the integration of this technology into a production environment. We provide EU-Working Visa and support you with relocation. Opportunity to obtain Dutch nationality within 5-7 years.
The research team at the origin of the Pl@ntNet app is looking for a highly motivated postdoctoral fellow in the field of data sciences or bio-informatics with experience in deep learning. Curiosity, open-mind, creativity, persistence, and collaborative-work ability are the key personal skills we target. A Ph.D. in computer science, bioinformatics or applied mathematics, is required, with demonstrated experience and a high quality publication record. The successful candidate should have programming skills in Python, Java or C++. A strong interest in collaborative and interdisciplinary research is required. Both beginning and more senior postdoctoral candidates are encouraged to apply.
Deep Learning Researcher  Autonomous Vehicles  robik.ai, Cambridge, UK,  Announcement date: 3 July 2017
We are recruiting for a talented researcher with a strong foundation in either Deep Learning,Computer Vision, Reinforcement Learning and/or Bayesian methods. You will pioneer the application of novel neural networks for self-driving vehicles to solve problems such as object perception, localisation, trajectory planning and control.
PhD student in Biotech Data Science  Ghent University Global Campus  Korea, Announcement date: 3 July 2017
The Ghent University Global Campus (GUGC) in Korea has a vacancy for a position of Ph.D. student in Biotech Data Science, starting from September 1, 2017. Besides assisting with teaching undergraduate courses, the candidate is expected to conduct applied research in the area of (large-scale) machine learning, with a particular focus on applying novel deep learning techniques to biotech data that are visual and/or textual in nature (e.g., medical image analysis, hyperspectral image analysis, genomic data analysis, …).
Deep Learning  Machine Learning Intern_Fall 2017 – Autodesk Canada – Montreal, QC, Announcement date: 26 June 2017
This is a great opportunity to develop and apply Machine Learning – Deep Learning for solving concrete needs. You will work in a stimulating environment, with the latest technologies for Augmented Reality, Virtual Reality and Real-time Rendering.
At a glance: Develop the software for receiving, understanding and testing iteratively the solutions // Investigate and validate potential approaches with your responsible // Prototype algorithms based on machine learning / deep learning
Postdoctoral Innovation Research Associate Fellowship  Saccade Diagnostics, Edinburgh, UK, Announcement date: 20 June 2017
Saccade Diagnostics is looking for a Postdoctoral Innovation Research Associate Fellowship in Machine Learning. Classifiers for Mental Health DiagnosticsThis is an opportunity for an experienced professional researcher to join our world leading team in developing next generation machine learning (ML) classifier models to help interpret eye movement abnormalities in a range of psychiatric illnesses. This will involve working with eye movement data previously obtained from patients as well as healthy controls. The successful candidate will drive the forward thinking approach on the use of the novel technology that will influence the scalability of our product line and overall direction of the company.
Applied Research Scientist  Spreemo, New York, NY, USA, Announcement date: 12 June 2017
At Spreemo we believe that advanced data science can prevent serious misdiagnoses and poor outcomes. Using that approach, Spreemo has helped tens of thousands of injured employees at Fortune 500 companies recover better, faster, and more affordably, fueling our rapid ascent as one of the 100 fastest-growing tech companies in North America. As an Applied Research Scientist, you will leverage the latest ML techniques and your deep software development background to help fix Americas broken healthcare system. Join the brightest minds in medicine, technology, and venture investing in our fight to democratize access to high-quality, cost-efficient care.
We are recruiting a highly-qualified Research Engineer into the Core Technology Team, to help in the continued expansion of our technology in face recognition and AI systems. We are looking for intelligent, enthusiastic software engineers and computer scientists, with a PhD and background in machine learning, ideally with a strong focus on AI and Deep Learning. Excellent software engineering ability is vital to take academic theory through to a practical working system.
Please email CVs to Dr. Przemyslaw Szeptycki (p.szeptycki@auroracs.co.uk) with job reference: CTR-017-05
Data scientist, Machine learning  Warwick Analytics London, UK, Announcement date: 24 May 2017
We are looking for a data scientist with experience in machine learning, Python, R or Matlab, to help us build innovative products that have already made an impact in the manufacturing industry. You will at times need to face customers to understand their challenges and help them to create a solution based on our products, in the other hand, you will also be involved in research to improve our technology.
Neurometric is offering a unique opportunity to be a key member of a startup team that will develop a SaaS offering innovative computer vision and machine learning solutions for the advertising industry (Fortune 500). We are looking for an independent and talented computer vision specialist with a strong background in machine learning (deep learning). See details at https://neurometric.ca/jobs/
Would you like to work in an R&D environment with other Data Scientists, Data Engineers and Decision Optimization Experts like you? Would you like to travel (to Belgium, France) and discover new cultures? Would you like to see that your work has a huge impact and your applications will be implemented worldwide?
Application: Join us! ArcelorMittal Global R&D Asturias. The Digital Research Programme For additional information: http://spain.arcelormittal.com/people-career/empleo/digitalresearchprogramme.aspx
Machine learning and automation Postdoc/PhD positions  The Advanced Robotics and Controls Lab, San Diego, CA, Announcement date: 10 Mai 2017
The Advanced Robotics and Controls Lab at UCSD has several post-doctoral and PhD students positions for immediate hire in the area of machine learning and automation for surgical robotics. The researcher will work on planning, decision making, and control for surgical telerobots, and in particular, deep reinforcement learning and inverse optimal control. The work will involve interacting with clinicians and other engineers in a multidisciplinary group, and has applications in civilian and military medicine.  The postdoctoral researcher will join the group of Prof. Michael Yip  UC San Diego)<http://arclab.ucsd.edu>. More details; https://sites.google.com/site/ucsdarclab/opportunities
Application Developers in Machine/Deep Learning  EPFL, Lausane, Suisse, Announcement date: 10 Mai 2017 The Blue Brain Project is currently looking for a C++/Python Developer for Deep/Machine Learning.   To strengthen its Machine/Deep Learning team. : http://emploi.epfl.ch/page-144140-en.html The BBP provides the community with regular releases of data, models and tools to accelerate neuroscience discovery and clinical translation through open science and global collaboration.
R&D Engineer Autonomous Driving  TomTom, Amsterdam, NL Announcement date: 4 Mai 2017
At TomTom we are seeking a computer vision and machine learning R&D engineer for our Autonomous Driving team. From the headquarters in Amsterdam, NL, you are researching world class algorithms and models to innovate our map technology for self-driving cars, and to automatically extract features relevant for autonomous driving. We have some of the largest labelled maps-related databases in the world. This puts us in a unique position to advance highly automated driving and impact the future of driving. + We are close to the research community and work on cutting edge algorithms and models. + Your innovative solutions will be put to practice, changing peoples everyday lives.
PhD Position in Bioinformatics / Machine Learning  Laval University, Quebec, Announcement date: 28 April 2017
A fully funded PhD position is available at the Bioinformatics Facility at CHU de Québec  Université Laval. The candidate will work on the computational problems involved in real-time classification/clustering of mass spectrometry analytes using data from a prototype mass spectrometer. A degree in bioinformatics, statistics, computer sciences or in a related discipline is required.
Ph.D. positions in Deep learning  Auburn University, USA, Announcement date: 27 April 2017
Multiple fully funded Ph.D. positions (supported via research assistantships) are available in the fascinating area of Deep Learning at Anh Nguyens lab at Auburn University, USA.
+ Preferred qualifications: A strong mathematical background and good programming skills.
+ Deadlines: May 15 to start in Fall 2017 or Aug 15 to start in Spring 2018.
Assistant professor on Deep Reinforcement Learning  University of Amsterdam, Netherlands, Announcement date: 20 April 2017
AMLAB at the U. Amsterdam is announcing an opening for a new tenure track assistant professorship in deep reinforcement learning (or associated field). AMLAB is directed by M. Welling. For more information about the position, please follow the following link: https://www.uva.nl/en/content/vacancies/2017/04/17-193-assistant-professor-deep-reinforcement-learning.html
Lenovo is one of the fastest growing technology companies on the planet! We are seeking an individual to work in a creatively flexible atmosphere with nascent algorithms and hardware prototypes. MUST have a deep understanding of Machine Learning algorithms and at least 3 years professional experience solving real world problems. In this role you’ll be helping the Contextual Computing Group build learning algorithms leveraging data sets consisting of millions of user actions per day to model, analyze and predict user behaviors. Come share in the discoveries that are forged from our shared achievements at Lenovo as we drive the next generation in technology!
Huya Live (huya.com) is Chinas leading interactive broadcast platform, provides users with high-definition, smooth and rich interactive video live service. We are looking for machine learning lead engineer. In this position, youll work with the team building the next generation intelligent video recognition platform. We expect candidates to be PhD in CS/EE specializing Machine Learning, Deep Learning or computer vision areas. Master degree with industry experience can be considered.
Im hiring for a postdoc position at the intersection of Machine Learning and Computer Vision at the Georgia Institute of Technology (Atlanta, GA).  Key technical elements of the work are likely to include learning visual attributes and manifold modeling of image transformations.  Full details here: http://siplab.gatech.edu/postdoc_ad.html
HypeVR is looking for deep learning engineer to develop solutions for 6DoF VR (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DFobWjSYst4). You need to be fluent in C++ and Computer Vision. Please contact jason@hypevr.com for more details.
A postdoctoral position in 3D image analysis of intra-tumor heterogeneity is immediately available in the Crosetto lab for Quantitative Biology and Technology (https://bienkocrosettolabs.org/) with the goal of studying phenotypic, genetic, and transcriptional intra-tumor heterogeneity by high-throughput microscopy imaging of serial tissue sections from different tumor types and hundreds of patients. The position is funded through a 33 million SEK research grant (Integrated Visualization of Intra-Tumor Heterogeneity) recently awarded to Dr. Crosetto by the Swedish Foundation for Strategic Research (SSF).
Applied Deep Learning Postdoctoral Fellowship – National Research Council of Canada, Ottawa, Announcement date: 4 April 2017This is a 2 year postdoctoral position ($64,000/year) aimed at applying deep learning to problems in energy and nano science. We are a computational physics group at a National Laboratory in Canada. The position is ideally suited for recent graduates who are interested in applying their technical skills to challenging and important problems in deep learning.Please find a link to the full description http://esviz.org/positions
Senior Data Scientist  SAP  Walldorf/St. Leon-Rot, BW, DE , Announcement date: 3 April 2017
As a Senior Data Scientist / Data Science Expert for our Deep Learning Center of Excellence, you will solve our customer’s biggest business challenges with deep learning models. Requires 5+ years of professional experience. Need hands-on experience with one or more leading deep learning frameworks (TensorFlow preferred; CNTK, MxNet, Caffe, Theano, Torch etc. a plus) https://jobs.sap.com/job/WalldorfSt_-Leon-Rot-Senior-Data-Scientist-Data-Science-Expert-for-Deep-Learning-Center-of-Excellence-Job-BW/336386301/?feedId=118400&utm_source=deeplearning&utm_campaign=sap_machinelearning
You will turn initial models into scalable production APIs on SAP’s cloud platform to integrate into existing and new offerings. Graduates and those with under 4 years experience are invited to apply. Requires hands-on experience with one or more leading deep learning frameworks (TensorFlow preferred; CNTK, MxNet, Caffe, Theano, Torch etc. a plus). https://jobs.sap.com/job/WalldorfSt_-Leon-Rot-%28Associate%29-Data-Scientist-for-Deep-Learning-Center-of-Excellence-Job-BW/336386401/?feedId=118400&utm_source=deeplearning&utm_campaign=sap_machinelearning
Lead encapsulation of deep learning models in scalable cloud services. 5+ years of professional experience required. Requires familiarity with convolutional neural networks, recurrent neural networks, reinforcement learning, generative adversarial networks, and memory networks. https://jobs.sap.com/job/WalldorfSt_-Leon-Rot-Senior-Developer-Development-Expert-for-Deep-Learning-Center-of-Excellence-Job-BW/336386601/?feedId=118400&utm_source=deeplearning&utm_campaign=sap_machinelearning
You will work with product and solution units to solve our customer’s biggest business challenges with machine learning models. Students and those with under 4 years experience are welcome to apply. Requires hands-on experience with one or more leading deep learning frameworks (TensorFlow preferred; CNTK, MxNet, Caffe, Theano, Torch etc. a plus). https://jobs.sap.com/job/WalldorfSt_-Leon-Rot-%28Associate%29-Developer-for-Deep-Learning-Center-of-Excellence-Job-BW/336386501/?feedId=118400&utm_source=deeplearning&utm_campaign=sap_machinelearning
Initiates and participates in projects in the area of prediction, optimization, and processes using advanced statistical / mathematical approaches. At least 5 years of experience in deep learning / machine learning / data science development projects with a focus on innovation. Proficiency in handling of multi-terabyte datasets in big data frameworks. https://jobs.sap.com/job/Palo-Alto-Deep-Leaning-Developer-for-Machine-Learning-Development-Job-CA-94301/335636901/?feedId=118400&utm_source=deeplearning&utm_campaign=sap_machinelearning
This role combines machine learning with huge data sets, associated processes and business implications, and building and maintaining innovative new products from the ground-up. Requires track record of developing novel learning algorithms and/or systems. Requires experience with Deep Learning software packages & libraries such as Caffe, Torch, Theano, TensorFlow, Scikit-learn, DeepLearning4j and programming languages such as Python, C++, Java, Scala etc. https://jobs.sap.com/job/Singapore-Developer-Senior-Developer-Machine-&-Deep-Learning-Expert%2C-SAP-Singapore-Job-01/335612001/?feedId=118400&utm_source=deeplearning&utm_campaign=sap_machinelearning
Hungry for a new venture? Grubhub is hiring a Data Scientist, Tech Lead-NLP to join our rapidly growing data team in NYC. About you: Strong Text Mining and NLP track record and work experience using large unstructured datasets doing Topic Modelling, Sentiment Analysis, Entity Recognition, Question Answering etc. Relevant Deep Learning experience will be of immense value. Advanced SQL, Python, and Spark. About us: Tacos, Beer, Big data..
Corti is a diverse group of rocket scientists, researchers, visionaries, and developers and we are expanding rapidly in both Copenhagen and San Francisco. This is the perfect time to get on board and play a vital role in shaping a new and more seamless way for people to interact with the world of tomorrow.
Quantitative Researcher:  Machine Learning – Jump Trading – New York , Chicago, Announcement date: 20 March 2017
Researchers at Jump Trading study the global electronic markets, using modern machine learning techniques to uncover signals and develop trading algorithms from large and varied datasets. We are looking for talented researchers to join this community: people who can combine a strong background in machine learning with a high level of scientific ingenuity and intellectual curiosity to solve challenging and fundamental problems in the area of high-frequency finance. No experience in finance is required. You can be located in either of New York or Chicago.  http://www.jumptrading.com/apply.html?gh_jid=154763
Research Scientist – Bosch Center for Artificial Intelligence – Bosch  Renningen, Germany, Announcement date: 17 March 2017
The newly founded Bosch Center for Artificial Intelligence has several open research positions located at our research campus in Renningen, Germany:
Postdoc and research positions in deep learning in medical imaging  CRL  Boston, USA,  Announcement date: 17 March 2017
The Computational Radiology Laboratory (CRL) at Boston Children’s Hospital, Harvard Medical School is seeking postdoctoral research fellows and researchers to develop deep learning methods in medical imaging in projects funded by the National Institutes of Health. Please contact: ali.gholipour@childrens.harvard.edu, web: crl.med.harvard.edu
Postdoc in Machine Learning for Multimodal Behavior and Mental State Analysis  ICS  Colorado, Announcement date: 17 March 2017
The Institute of Cognitive Science (ICS) and Department of Computer Science at the University of Colorado Boulder anticipates hiring a full time  postdoctoral fellow starting Summer/Fall 2017 for one year and renewable for a second year. The position includes a competitive salary commensurate with experience and full benefits. Review of applications will begin immediately and continue until the position is filled.
Please complete Faculty/University Staff EEO Data (application) form (https://goo.gl/YC9g94) and upload the following required documents: 1—Cover letter; 2—Curriculum Vitae 3—List of Three References 4-One or two representative publications.
 Last modified on September 1, 2017, at 1:02 pm by Linda Peinthiere
