Our friend Daniel Nouri, founder of Natural Vision and top contender on the leaderboard, has written a tutorial blog post on this competition. The tutorial outlines how to use convolutional neural nets to detect facial key points on this competition's dataset. We strongly encourage you to follow Daniel's tutorial, step through the exercises, and learn how to build different network architectures. 
Daniel's blog post features Lasagne, which uses Python and Theano. Before tackling the tutorial, you'll need:
A GPU (either on your computer, or we'll teach you how to run on AWS)
Below, we walk you through how to complete both of these prerequisites. 
Not everyone has a GPU - it's primarily used for gaming or heavy 3D visualization. The GPU is orders of magnitude faster than the cpu for math operations (such as matrix multiplication), which is essential for many machine learning algorithms. In this tutorial, most of the training of neural nets needs to be run on a GPU, otherwise it could take hours to train.  
If you don't have a GPU, you can spin up some Amazon Web Services instances to run this tutorial and pay a small fee for the computing hours. 
Log into your AWS management console and click over to EC2. There are two options for creating your instance:
On demand instances: Uninterrupted running of your code. More expensive at $0.702 per Instance Hour.
Spot instances:  This option gives you left-over compute power at a much cheaper rate. Use this option if you can handle potential interrupts. It's at around $0.0031 per Instance Hour.
There are quite a few steps to configure an AWS instance to run CUDA-GPU successfully. We have found using these steps very useful. However, it can be a bit cumbersome to run so many steps every time. The author has graciously provided an image (AMI) for his configuration, so you can launch it as a starting point (and skip that tutorial). 
Step 4: Review, launch! Now you should be able to connect. 
You should see instruction to ssh into the server similar to this:
I have scripted the configuration in this github repo. All you need to do is to clone this repository, and run the setup.sh script. 
Please pay special attention for downloading the data and putting them on AWS server. You need to copy-paste from your browser's cookie into a file called cookie.txt in order to get the correct data files. The downloading step is included in setup.sh, but you need to copy-paste your cookie.txt file yourself. It is described in the README file in the repository. 
Step 8: Don't forget to terminate your AWS instance. Otherwise you get charged. 
Kaggle is not responsible for any charges incurred from running this tutorial. 
Daniel Nouri is the founder of Natural Vision, a company that builds cutting edge machine learning solutions.
