The NVIDIA Deep Learning SDK accelerates widely-used deep learning frameworks such as Caffe, CNTK, TensorFlow, Theano and Torch as well as many other deep learning applications. 
Choose a deep learning framework from the list below, download the supported version of cuDNN and follow the instructions on the framework page to get started.
 Caffe is a deep learning framework made with expression, speed, and modularity in mind. Caffe is developed by the Berkeley Vision and Learning Center (BVLC), as well as community contributors and is popular for computer vision.
Caffe2 is a deep learning framework enabling simple and flexible deep learning. Built on the original Caffe, Caffe2 is designed with expression, speed, and modularity in mind, allowing for a more flexible way to organize computation.
The Microsoft Cognitive Toolkit —previously known as CNTK— is a unified deep-learning toolkit from Microsoft Research that makes it easy to train and combine popular model types across multiple GPUs and servers. Microsoft Cognitive Toolkit implements highly efficient CNN and RNN training for speech, image and text data.
 TensorFlow is a software library for numerical computation using data flow graphs, developed by Google’s Machine Intelligence research organization.
Theano is a math expression compiler that efficiently defines, optimizes, and evaluates mathematical expressions involving multi-dimensional arrays.
 MXnet is a deep learning framework designed for both efficiency and flexibility that allows you to mix the flavors of symbolic programming and imperative programming to maximize efficiency and productivity.
 Chainer is a deep learning framework that’s designed on the principle of define-by-run. Unlike frameworks that use the define-and-run approach, Chainer lets you modify networks during runtime, allowing you to use arbitrary control flow statements.
 Keras is a minimalist, highly modular neural networks library, written in Python, and capable of running on top of either TensorFlow or Theano. Keras was developed with a focus on enabling fast experimentation.
cuDNN version depends on the version of TensorFlow and Theano installed with Keras. 
