 Monica R. Martinez, PhD, is a former president of the New Tech Network and was previously vice president of KnowledgeWorks. She is a co-author, with Dennis McGrath, of Deeper Learning: How Eight Innovative Public Schools Are... 
 Dennis McGrath is a professor of sociology at the Community College of Philadelphia, where he won the Christian R. and Mary F. Lindback Distinguished Teaching Award. He is a co-author, with Monica R. Martinez, of Deeper Learning:... 
The acclaimed exploration of how public education can cultivate innovators—with a foreword by Russlynn Ali, a leading advocate for remaking schools
“A wonderful book that should be read by every educator, parent, and policy maker.” —Tony Wagner, author of Creating Innovators and The Global Achievement Gap
Dime-a-dozen ideas for reforming education seem to be everywhere these days; few actually transform the everyday experience of the 50 million plus students who are regularly subjected to traditional lecturing, note-taking, and rote learning—often with dismal results. Enter Deeper Learning, “a fast read [that] will interest educators who want to produce self-motivated, passionate learners” (Library Journal) by award-winning education strategist Monica R. Martinez and sociologist Dennis McGrath.
Offering “uplifting” (Kirkus Reviews) anecdotes in what Tom Carroll of the National Commission on Teaching and America’s Future calls a “compelling book [that] reveals how eight schools are navigating the transition from industrial-era teaching to twenty-first-century learning,” the authors provide a blueprint for creating flexible environments that meet students’ varied needs and put them at the helm of their own collaborative learning experience. This paperback edition of a book called a “refreshing reminder that the best schools are defined by a commitment to motivating, challenging, and connecting students to their own lives and their own learning” by New America Foundation’s Elena Silva features a foreword by renowned policy and education advocate Russlynn Ali and will empower and inspire educators to address the need for American schools to be genuinely innovative.
 In the tradition of Ted Sizer, Pedro Noguera, Gloria Ladson-Billings, and other innovative thought leaders, Martinez and McGrath provide inspiring examples of what deeper, student-centered learning looks like in practice. Communities across the nation must use the principles outlined in this book to fundamentally transform schools into places where Deeper Learning flourishes as a rule rather than an exception.Warren Simmons, executive director, Annenberg Institute for School Reform at Brown University 
 This compelling book reveals how eight schools are navigating the transition from industrial-era teaching to twenty-first-century learning. A rare blend of inspiration and practical action.Tom Carroll, president emeritus, National Commission on Teaching and Americas Future 
 Deeper Learning is both informed and informative. From California to Maine, eight exemplary public schools show us how teachers and principals are finding creative ways to impact the learning and life chances of high school youth. This book is a clarion call to celebrate the imagination and commitment of educators in these and other stellar public schools.Mary Brabeck, Gale and Ira Drukier Dean, NYU Steinhardt School of Culture, Education, and Human Development 
 Deeper Learning is a refreshing reminder that the best schools are defined by a commitment to motivating, challenging, and connecting students to their own lives and their own learning.Elena Silva, senior associate, Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching 
 The New Press is a nonprofit public-interest book publisher. Your gift will support The New Press in continuing to leverage books for social change. Please make a tax-deductible donation today!
