 This site requires Javascript in order to view all its content. Please enable Javascript in order to access all the functionality of this web site. Here are the instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
 Design and train deep learning models using a high-level interface. Choose a deep learning framework that best suits your needs based on your choice of programming language, platform, and target application.
This NVIDIA Deep Learning SDK delivers high-performance multi-GPU acceleration and industry-vetted deep learning algorithms, and is designed for easy drop-in acceleration for deep learning frameworks.
NVIDIA GPUs for deep learning are available in desktops, notebooks, servers, and supercomputers around the world, as well as in cloud services from Amazon, IBM, Microsoft, and Google. You can choose a plug-and-play deep learning solution powered by NVIDIA GPUs or build your own.
NVIDIA TITAN Xp - The fastest accelerator for deep neural network training on a desktop PC based on the revolutionary NVIDIA Pascal™ architecture
NVIDIA Quadro® GP100 - The most advanced accelerator for deep neural network training on a professional workstation based on the Pascal architecture.
NVIDIA® DGX™ SYSTEMS - The world's portfolio of purpose-built AI supercomputers. NVIDIA DGX systems are designed to give data scientists the most powerful tools for AI exploration that goes from your desk, to the data center, and the cloud.
NVIDIA Tesla® Solutions - The world's leading platform for the accelerated data center, providing the power to accelerate both artificial intelligence and high performance computing workloads.
NVIDIA Jetson TX2 Developer Kit – a full-featured development platform for visual computing embedded applications.
NVIDIA DRIVE™ PX – a self-driving car computer based on the NVIDIA Tegra X1 processor.
Deep Learning at Oxford by Nando de Freitas (University of Oxford)
Neural Networks for Machine Learning by Geoffrey Hinton (Google, University of Toronto)
Deep Learning in a Nutshell Series by Tim Dettmers (University of Lugano, Switzerland)
