 This site requires Javascript in order to view all its content. Please enable Javascript in order to access all the functionality of this web site. Here are the instructions how to enable JavaScript in your web browser.
Building a platform for deep learning goes well beyond selecting a server and GPUs. A commitment to implementing AI in your business involves carefully selecting and integrating complex software with hardware. NVIDIA® DGX-1™ fast-tracks your initiative with a solution that works right out of the box, so you can gain insights in hours instead of weeks or months.
Today’s deep learning environments can cost hundreds of thousands of dollars in software engineering hours, and months of delays for the open source software to stabilize. With NVIDIA DGX-1 you’re immediately productive, with simplified workflows and collaboration across your team. Save time and money with  a solution that’s up-to-date with the latest NVIDIA optimized software.
While many solutions offer GPU-accelerated performance, only NVIDIA DGX-1 unlocks the full potential of the latest NVIDIA® Tesla® V100, including next generation NVIDIA NVLink™, and new Tensor Core architecture. DGX-1 delivers 3X faster training speed than other GPU-based systems by using the NVIDIA GPU Cloud Deep Learning Stack with optimized versions of today’s most popular frameworks.
Get the full power of NVIDIA deep learning expertise backing your project, so you won’t waste time and money struggling to get the results you expect. NVIDIA’s enterprise-grade support saves you from the time consuming job of troubleshooting hardware and open source software. Spend less time tuning and optimizing and more time focused on discovery.
NVIDIA TESLA V100The first GPU architecture to incorporate Tensor Core technology designed for AI.
QUAD EDR IBHigh-bandwidth and low-latency, with a total of 800 GB/s of communication.
TWO INTEL XEON CPUSFor boot, storage management, and deep learning framework coordination.
NEXT GENERATION NVIDIA NVLINKHigh-speed interconnect 300 GB/s per GPU, 10X faster than current PCIe Gen3 x16 interconnections.
THREE RACK-UNIT ENCLOSUREFits in a compact rack space, using 3,200 Watts of maximum system power.
NVIDIA DGX-1 is engineered to be the essential instrument that delivers the fastest solutions for your deep learning training and AI-accelerated analytics workloads.
Get the support you need to improve productivity and reduce system downtime. Hardware and software support gives you access to NVIDIA deep learning expertise and includes cloud management services, software upgrades and updates, and priority resolution of your critical issues.
The NVIDIA DGX Station is available for purchase in select countries
The NVIDIA DGX Station is available for purchase in select countries and is priced at $69,000*. DGX Station support plan is required and must be purchased separately.
When ordering DGX-1 with V100, you can choose between getting DGX-1 with P100 now and receiving an upgrade to V100 as soon it’s available, or getting a DGX-1 with V100 when it starts shipping. DGX-1 support plan is required and must be purchased separately.
