 BlackHat Innovation AwardsDeep Instinct wins the "Most Innovative Startup" award
GartnerDeep Instinct named a "Cool Vendor"ForbesCover story on Deep Instinct (in Hebrew)VentureBeatDeep Instinct listed in "5 Deep Learning Startups to Follow in 2016"ForbesDeep Instinct listed in "Thirteen Companies That Use Deep Learning to Produce Actionable Results"Tom's Hardware"Deep Instinct: A New Way to Prevent Malware, With Deep Learning"eSecurity Planet"Startup Spotlight: Deep Instinct's AI-Driven Threat Detection"RE-WORKDeep Learning with Eli David, CTO of Deep InstinctDark ReadingOutsmart Hackers with Deep Learning: Live Webinar by Eli DavidCB InsightsDeep Instinct mentioned in "13 Big Industries Where Deep Learning Is Being Used To Innovate"Nvidia AI PodcastPodcast: Using GPUs and AI to Fight Cybercrime
VentureBeatDeep Instinct selected by Nvidia as the "most disruptive AI startup"!
ForbesEli David's article in Forbes:"How An Artificial Brain Could Help Us Outsmart Hackers"
 Dr. Eli David is a leading expert in the field of computational intelligence, specializing in deep learning (neural networks) and evolutionary computation. He has published more than thirty papers in leading artificial intelligence journals and conferences, mostly focusing on applications of deep learning and genetic algorithms in various real-world domains. For the past ten years, he has been teaching courses on deep learning and evolutionary computation, in addition to supervising the research of graduate students in these fields. He has also served in numerous capacities successfully designing, implementing, and leading deep learning based projects in real-world environments.
Dr. David is the developer of Falcon, a grandmaster-level chess playing program based on genetic algorithms and deep learning. The program reached the second place in World Computer Speed Chess Championship. He received the Best Paper Award in 2008 Genetic and Evolutionary Computation Conference, the Gold Award in the prestigious "Humies" Awards for Human-Competitive Results in 2014, and the Best Paper Award in 2016 International Conference on Artificial Neural Networks. 
Currently Dr. David is the co-founder and CTO of Deep Instinct, the first company to apply deep learning to cybersecurity. Recently Deep Instinct was recognized by Nvidia as the "most disruptive AI startup".
 Note: My academic publications appear under the name "Omid E. David" (middle name used as first name, and vice versa). This misnomer persists for backward compatibility.
 G. Caspi, D. Cohen, O.E. David, N. Maman, and Y. Neeman
 Patents According to some embodiments, a method for training a system for data traffic analysis is described, the system comprising a deep learning algorithm, wherein the deep learning algorithm comprises a prediction model which is trained to take into account the history of data.
According to some embodiments, the deep learning algorithm is operated on a graphical processing unit.
According to some embodiments, the system for data traffic analysis is configured to detect anomalies in the data, based also on past data.
According to some embodiments, the system for data traffic analysis is configured to simultaneously detect anomalies in the data and update its prediction model.
Additional methods and systems in the field of data traffic analysis are also described.
According to some embodiments, data of a car are analyzed in order to detect anomalies.
 Conferences Selected Winner of Best Paper Award in ICANN 16
We present an end-to-end learning method for chess, relying on deep neural networks. Without any a priori knowledge, in particular without any knowledge regarding the rules of chess, a deep neural network is trained using a combination of unsupervised pretraining and supervised training. The unsupervised training extracts high level features from a given position, and the supervised training learns to compare two chess positions and select the more favorable one. The training relies entirely on datasets of several million chess games, and no further domain specific knowledge is incorporated. The experiments show that the resulting neural network (referred to as DeepChess) is on a par with state-of-the-art chess playing programs, which have been developed through many years of manual feature selection and tuning. DeepChess is the first end-to-end machine learning-based method that results in a grandmaster-level chess playing performance.
 Springer LNCS, Vol. 9887, pp. 20-28, Barcelona, Spain, September 2016. 
 Conferences Selected In this paper we describe the problem of painter classification, and propose a novel approach based on deep convolutional autoencoder neural networks. While previous approaches relied on image processing and manual feature extraction from paintings, our approach operates on the raw pixel level, without any preprocessing or manual feature extraction. We first train a deep convolutional autoencoder on a dataset of paintings, and subsequently use it to initialize a supervised convolutional neural network for the classification phase. The proposed approach substantially outperforms previous methods, improving the previous state-of-the-art for the 3-painter classification problem from 90.44% accuracy (previous state-of-the-art) to 96.52% accuracy, i.e., a 63% reduction in error rate.
 DNN-Buddies: A Deep Learning-Based Estimation Metric for the Jigsaw Puzzle Problem
 Springer LNCS, Vol. 9887, pp. 20-28, Barcelona, Spain, September 2016. 
 DNN-Buddies: A Deep Learning-Based Estimation Metric for the Jigsaw Puzzle Problem
 Conferences Selected This paper introduces the first deep neural network-based estimation metric for the jigsaw puzzle problem. Given two puzzle piece edges, the neural network predicts whether or not they should be adjacent in the correct assembly of the puzzle, using nothing but the pixels of each piece. The proposed metric exhibits an extremely high precision even though no manual feature extraction is performed. When incorporated into an existing puzzle solver, the solution’s accuracy increases significantly, achieving thereby a new state-of-the-art standard.
 An Automatic Solver for Very Large Jigsaw Puzzles Using Genetic Algorithms
 Journal Papers Selected In this paper we propose the first effective genetic algorithm (GA)-based jigsaw puzzle solver. We introduce a novel crossover procedure that merges two ‘‘parent’’ solutions to an improved ‘‘child’’ configuration by detecting, extracting, and combining correctly assembled puzzle segments. The solver proposed exhibits state-of-the-art performance, as far as handling previously attempted puzzles more accurately and efficiently, as well puzzle sizes that have not been attempted before. The extended experimental results provided in this paper include, among others, a thorough inspection of up to 30,745-piece puzzles (compared to previous attempts on 22,755-piece puzzles), using a considerably faster concurrent implementation of the algorithm. Furthermore, we explore the impact of different phases of the novel crossover operator by experimenting with several variants of the GA. Finally, we compare different fitness functions and their effect on the overall results of the GAbased solver
 DeepSign: Deep Learning for Automatic Malware Signature Generation and Classification
 DeepSign: Deep Learning for Automatic Malware Signature Generation and Classification
 Conferences Selected This paper presents a novel deep learning based method for automatic malware signature generation and classification. The method uses a deep belief network (DBN), implemented with a deep stack of denoising autoencoders, generating an invariant compact representation of the malware behavior. While conventional signature and token based methods for malware detection do not detect a majority of new variants for existing malware, the results presented in this paper show that signatures generated by the DBN allow for an accurate classification of new malware variants. Using a dataset containing hundreds of variants for several major malware families, our method achieves 98.6% classification accuracy using the signatures generated by the DBN. The presented method is completely agnostic to the type of malware behavior that is logged (e.g., API calls and their parameters, registry entries, websites and ports accessed, etc.), and can use any raw input from a sandbox to successfully train the deep neural network which is used to generate malware signatures.
 O.E. David, H.J. van den Herik, M. Koppel, and N.S. Netanyahu
 Journal Papers Selected Winner of Gold Award in 11th Annual Humies Awards for Human-Competitive Results
This paper demonstrates the use of genetic algorithms for evolving: 1) a grandmaster-level evaluation function, and 2) a search mechanism for a chess program, the parameter values of which are initialized randomly. The evaluation function of the program is evolved by learning from databases of (human) grandmaster games. At first, the organisms are evolved to mimic the behavior of human grandmasters, and then these organisms are further improved upon by means of coevolution. The search mechanism is evolved by learning from tactical test suites. Our results show that the evolved program outperforms a two-time world computer chess champion and is at par with the other leading computer chess programs.
 A Generalized Genetic Algorithm-Based Solver for Very Large Jigsaw Puzzles of Complex Types
 A Generalized Genetic Algorithm-Based Solver for Very Large Jigsaw Puzzles of Complex Types
 Conferences Selected In this paper we introduce new types of square-piece jigsaw puzzles, where in addition to the unknown location and orientation of each piece, a piece might also need to be flipped. These puzzles, which are associated with a number of real world problems, are considerably harder, from a computational standpoint. Specifically, we present a novel generalized genetic algorithm (GA)- based solver that can handle puzzle pieces of unknown location and orientation (Type 2 puzzles) and (two-sided) puzzle pieces of unknown location, orientation, and face (Type 4 puzzles). To the best of our knowledge, our solver provides a new state-of-the-art, solving previously attempted puzzles faster and far more accurately, handling puzzle sizes that have never been attempted before, and assembling the newly introduced two-sided puzzles automatically and effectively. This paper also presents, among other results, the most extensive set of experimental results, compiled as of yet, on Type 2 puzzles.
 Conferences In this paper we describe the problem of painter classification, and propose a novel hybrid approach incorporating genetic algorithms (GA) and deep restricted Boltzmann machines (RBM). Given a painting, we extract features using both generic image processing (IP) functions (e.g., fractal dimension, Fourier spectra coefficients, texture coefficients, etc.) and unsupervised deep learning (using deep RBMs). We subsequently compare several supervised learning techniques for classification using the extracted features as input. The results show that the weighted nearest neighbor (WNN) method, for which the weights are evolved using GA, outperforms both a support vector machine (SVM) classifier and a standard nearest neighbor classifier, achieving over 90% classification accuracy for the 3-painter problem (an improvement of over 10% relatively to previous results due to standard feature extraction only).
 Genetic Algorithm-Based Solver for Very Large Multiple Jigsaw Puzzles of Unknown Dimensions and Piece Orientation
 Genetic Algorithm-Based Solver for Very Large Multiple Jigsaw Puzzles of Unknown Dimensions and Piece Orientation
 Conferences In this paper we propose the first genetic algorithm (GA)- based solver for jigsaw puzzles of unknown puzzle dimensions and unknown piece location and orientation. Our solver uses a novel crossover technique, and sets a new state-of-the-art in terms of the puzzle sizes solved and the accuracy obtained. The results are significantly improved, even when compared to previous solvers assuming known puzzle dimensions. Moreover, the solver successfully contends with a mixed bag of multiple puzzle pieces, assembling simultaneously all puzzles.
 Conferences In recent years, deep learning methods applying unsupervised learning to train deep layers of neural networks have achieved remarkable results in numerous fields. In the past, many genetic algorithms based methods have been successfully applied to training neural networks. In this paper, we extend previous work and propose a GA-assisted method for deep learning. Our experimental results indicate that this GA-assisted approach improves the performance of a deep autoencoder, producing a sparser neural network.
 IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR '14)
 Workshop on Registration of Very Large Images, pp. 323-328, Columbus, OH, June 2014. 
 Conferences Image registration (IR) is a fundamental task in image processing for matching two or more images of the same scene taken at different times, from different viewpoints and/or by different sensors. Due to the enormous diversity of IR applications, automatic IR remains a challenging problem to this day. A wide range of techniques has been developed for various data types and problems. These techniques might not handle effectively very large images, which give rise usually to more complex transformations, e.g., deformations and various other distortions.
In this paper we present a genetic programming (GP)- based approach for IR, which could offer a significant advantage in dealing with very large images, as it does not make any prior assumptions about the transformation model. Thus, by incorporating certain generic building blocks into the proposed GP framework, we hope to realize a large set of specialized transformations that should yield accurate registration of very large images.
 Conferences In this paper we present a genetic algorithm (GA)-based approach for the stereo matching problem. More precisely, the approach presented is a combination of a simple dynamic programming algorithm, commonly used for stereo matching, with a practical GA-based optimization scheme. The performance of our scheme was evaluated on standard test data of the Middlebury benchmark. Specifically, the number of incorrect disparities on these data decreases by approximately 20% in comparison to the original approach (without the use of a GA).
 Conferences Selected In this paper we propose the first effective automated, genetic algorithm (GA)-based jigsaw puzzle solver. We introduce a novel procedure of merging two parent solutions to an improved ”child” solution by detecting, extracting, and combining correctly assembled puzzle segments. The solver proposed exhibits state-of-the-art performance solving previously attempted puzzles faster and far more accurately, and also puzzles of size never before attempted. Other contributions include the creation of a benchmark of large images, previously unavailable. We share the data sets and all of our results for future testing and comparative evaluation of jigsaw puzzle solvers.
 Conferences This paper describes the problem of painter classification. We propose solving the problem by using genetic algorithms, which yields very promising results. The proposed methodology combines dimensionality reduction (via image preprocessing) and evolutionary computation techniques, by representing preprocessed data as a chromosome for a genetic algorithm (GA). The preprocessing of our scheme incorporates a diverse set of complex features (e.g., fractal dimension, Fourier spectra coefficients, and texture). The training phase of the GA employs a weighted nearest neighbor (NN) algorithm. We provide initial promising results for the 2- and 3-class cases, which offer significant improvement in comparison to a standard nearest neighbor classifier.
 Conferences Clot formation is a common complication in extracorporeal circuits. In this paper we describe a novel method for clot formation analysis using image processing. We assembled a closed extracorporeal circuit and circulated blood at varying speeds. Blood filters were placed in downstream of the flow, and clotting agents were added to the circuit. Digital images of the filter were subsequently taken, and image analysis was applied to calculate the density of the clot. Our results show a significant correlation between the cumulative size of the clots, the density measure of the clot based on image analysis, and flow duration in the system.
 Patents The present invention is of a method for performing an anastomosis and in particular, to such a method in which an end-to-side vessel endoluminal proximal anastomosis is performed in a minimally invasive CABG procedure.
 International Conference on Convergence and Hybrid Information Technology (ICHIT '11)
 Springer LNCS, Vol. 6935, pp. 258-265, Daejeon, Korea, October 2011. 
 Conferences This paper presents an integrated approach, combining a state-of-the-art commercial object detection system and genetic algorithms (GA)-based learning for automatic object classification. Specifically, the approach is based on applying weighted nearest neighbor classification to feature vectors extracted from the detected objects, where the weights are evolved due to GA-based learning. Our results demonstrate that this GA-based approach is considerably superior to other standard classification methods.
 Journal Papers Selected In this paper we demonstrate how genetic algorithms can be used to reverse engineer an evaluation function’s parameters for computer chess. Our results show that using an appropriate expert (or mentor), we can evolve a program that is on par with top tournament-playing chess programs, outperforming a two time World Computer Chess Champion. This performance gain is achieved by evolving a program that mimics the behavior of a superior expert. The resulting evaluation function of the evolved program consists of a much smaller number of parameters than the expert’s. The extended experimental results provided in this paper include a report on our successful participation in the 2008 World Computer Chess Championship. In principle, our expert-driven approach could be used in a wide range of problems for which appropriate experts are available.
 Patents The present invention relates to an apparatus, device and a method for harvesting blood vessels, and in particular, to such an apparatus, device and method in which the internal mammary artery (IMA) is harvested for coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery using a minimally invasive approach or a conventional procedure.
 Conferences This paper presents an integrated approach, combining a state-of-the-art commercial object detection system and genetic algorithms (GA)-based learning for automatic object classification. Specifically, the approach is based on applying weighted nearest neighbor classification to feature vectors extracted from the detected objects, where the weights are evolved due to GA-based learning. Our results demonstrate that this GA-based approach is considerably superior to other standard classification methods.
 Journal Papers In this paper we introduce a novel method for automatically tuning the search parameters of a chess program using genetic algorithms (GA). Our results show that a large set of parameter values can be learned automatically, such that the resulting performance is comparable with that of manually tuned parameters of top tournament-playing chess programs.
 Conferences In this paper we introduce a novel method for automatically tuning the search parameters of a chess program using genetic algorithms. Our results show that a large set of parameter values can be learned automatically, such that the resulting performance is comparable with that of manually tuned parameters of top tournament-playing chess programs.
 O.E. David, H.J. van den Herik, M. Koppel, and N.S. Netanyahu
 O.E. David, H.J. van den Herik, M. Koppel, and N.S. Netanyahu
 Conferences Selected This paper demonstrates the use of genetic algorithms for evolving a grandmaster-level evaluation function for a chess program. This is achieved by combining supervised and unsupervised learning. In the supervised learning phase the organisms are evolved to mimic the behavior of human grandmasters, and in the unsupervised learning phase these evolved organisms are further improved upon by means of coevolution.
While past attempts succeeded in creating a grandmaster-level program by mimicking the behavior of existing computer chess programs, this paper presents the first successful attempt at evolving a state-of-the-art evaluation function by learning only from databases of games played by humans. Our results demonstrate that the evolved program outperforms a two-time World Computer Chess Champion.
 Advisors: Nathan Netanyahu and Moshe Koppel. Department of Computer Science, Bar-Ilan University, Israel, June 2009. 
 Theses The following is a review of the thesis by Dap Hartmann:
Mimicking the Black Box: Genetically evolving evaluation functions and search algorithms, ICGA Journal, Vol. 33, No. 1, pp. 42-43, March 2010.
 Conferences In this paper we reviw the conventional versions of nullmove pruning, and present our enhancements which allow for a deeper search with greater accuracy. While the conventional versions of nullmove pruning use reduction values of R ≤ 3, we use an aggressive reduction value of R = 4 within a verified adaptive configuration which maximizes the benefit from the more aggressive pruning, while limiting its tactical liabilities. Our experimental results using our grandmasterlevel chess program, Falcon, show that our null-move reductions (NMR) outperform the conventional methods, with the tactical benefits of the deeper search dominating the deficiencies. Moreover, unlike standard null-move pruning, which fails badly in zugzwang positions, NMR is impervious to zugzwangs. Finally, the implementation of NMR in any program already using null-move pruning requires a modification of only a few lines of code.
 Conferences Selected Winner of Best Paper Award in GECCO 08
In this paper we demonstrate how genetic algorithms can be used to reverse engineer an evaluation function’s parameters for computer chess. Our results show that using an appropriate mentor, we can evolve a program that is on par with top tournament-playing chess programs, outperforming a two-time World Computer Chess Champion. This performance gain is achieved by evolving a program with a smaller number of parameters in its evaluation function to mimic the behavior of a superior mentor which uses a more extensive evaluation function. In principle, our mentor-assisted approach could be used in a wide range of problems for which appropriate mentors are available.
 Conferences The conventional search methods using static evaluation at leaf nodes are liable to missing the fact that no win goal exists in certain positions. Blockage positions, in which neither side can penetrate into the opponent’s camp, are a prominent example of such positions. Deep search cannot detect the existence of a blockage, since its judgment is based solely on static evaluation, without taking the goals into consideration. In this paper we introduce a blockage detection method, which manages to detect a large set of blockage positions in pawn endgames, with practically no additional overhead. By examining different aspects of the pawn structure, it checks whether the pawns form a blockage which prevents the king from penetrating into the opponent’s camp. It then checks several criteria to find out whether the blockage is permanent.
 Journal Papers In this article we introduce a blockage-detection method, which manages to detect a large set of blockage positions in pawn endgames, with practically no additional overhead. By examining different elements of the pawn structure, the method checks whether the Pawns form a blockage which prevents the King from penetrating into the opponent’s camp. It then checks several criteria to find out whether the blockage is permanent.
 Journal Papers In this article we review standard null-move pruning and introduce our extended version of it, which we call verified null-move pruning. In verified null-move pruning, whenever the shallow null-move search indicates a fail-high, instead of cutting off the search from the current node, the search is continued with reduced depth. Our experiments with verified null-move pruning show that on average, it constructs a smaller search tree with greater tactical strength in comparison to standard null-move pruning. Moreover, unlike standard null-move pruning, which fails badly in zugzwang positions, verified null-move pruning manages to detect most zugzwangs and in such cases conducts a re-search to obtain the correct result. In addition, verified null-move pruning is very easy to implement, and any standard null-move pruning program can use verified null-move pruning by modifying only a few lines of code.
Our experiments with verified null-move pruning show that on average, it constructs a smaller search tree with greater tactical strength in comparison to standard null-move pruning. Moreover, unlike standard null-move pruning, which fails badly in zugzwang positions, verified null-move pruning manages to detect most zugzwangs and in such cases conducts a re-search to obtain the correct result. In addition, verified null-move pruning is very easy to implement, and any standard null-move pruning program can use verified null-move pruning by modifying only a few lines of code.
 Deep Instinct wins the "Most Innovative Startup" award in BlackHat conference!
 Researcher in deep learning and evolutionary computation (genetic algorithms and genetic programming), in addition to supervising the research of graduate students in these fields.
 Lecturer in Evolutionary Algorithms and Bio-Inspired Algorithms courses, at department of Computer Science. The two courses cover evolutionary algorithms and neural networks (focusing on deep learning).
Previously TA in Image Processing, Operating Systems, and Algorithms, at departments of Computer Science, Mathematics, and Engineering.
 For the paper "DeepChess: End-to-End Deep Neural Network for Automatic Learning in Chess".
First end-to-end learning method that results in a grandmaster-level chess program without any a priori knowledge, using a combination of unsupervised and supervised deep learning methods.
 For the paper "Genetic Algorithms for Mentor-Assisted Evaluation Function Optimization". 
First successful application of machine learning using genetic algorithms that evolves a chess program's evaluation function from scratch to reach grandmaster-level performance.
 FALCON is the first grandmaster-level chess playing program which learns all its evaluation function and search parameters using machine learning. These values are learned using a combination of genetic algorithms based methods, which are described in several of my publications.
The main concepts are also described in the following Galileo and Ynet article:
- 2nd place, World Computer Speed Chess Championship 2008, Beijing, China.
- 3rd place, World Computer Speed Chess Championship 2004, Ramat-Gan, Israel.
- 10th place, World Computer Chess Championship 2003, Graz, Austria. 
Additionally, FALCON has served as a testbed for several major research innovations, which resulted in a Best Paper Award in 2008 Genetic and Evolutionary Computation Conference, the Gold Award in the prestigious "Humies" Awards for Human-Competitive Results in 2014, and recently the Best Paper Award in 2016 International Conference on Artificial Neural Networks.
