1,000 schools in 10 countries developing deep learning!Learners flourishing in a complex world.We are a social movement to transform learning.Join the conversation.
Who we areWe are partnering with 1000 schools in 10 countries. We work with clusters and networks of schools to build knowledge and practices that develop deep learning and foster whole system change. 
What we doWe work alongside educators to change the role of teachers to that of activators of learning who design learning experiences that build on learner strengths and needs, create new knowledge using real-life problem solving and help all students identify their talents, purpose and passion.
Why we do itWe believe every student deserves to learn deeply and to support whole systems to transform learning — schools, provinces, states and countries to want to take action, make a positive impact and grasp opportunities that will lead to success in life.
Who is involvedWe are joined by families, teachers, school leaders and policy makers worldwide who are seeking ways to transform pedagogies and provide the conditions that will facilitate deep learning.
Check out how NPDL tools and processes are being used to design for deeper learning in Derrimut Primary School in the Australian Cluster!
NPDLConnect is designed to NAME our intentions, CONNECT educators, NOURISH deep thinking and learning and ILLUMINATE  best practice.
The Deep Learning Competencies, better known as the 6 Cs, are the skill sets each and every student needs to achieve and excel in, in order to flourish in todays complex world. These competencies form the foundation for the New Measures and NPDL teachers use the Deep Learning Progressions to assess students’ current levels in each of the six Deep Learning Competencies. They combine this with information about student achievement, interests, and aspirations to get a clear understanding of what each student needs to learn.
Latest NewsNPDL Deep Learning Series  A Cross Case StudyJanuary 19, 2017 - 10:52 pmThese are exciting times. For the first time we see the real possibility for transforming education because Deep Learning, if done well, excites students, parents, teachers and leaders at all levels. Toward District Wide Deep Learning  A CROSS CASE STUDY reviews the initial NPDL journey of three Ontario School Districts: who they are, what []
Deep Learning Lab 2017May 8, 2016 - 8:44 pmThe world needs solutions like never before and NPDL has never been more relevant.  Deep learning  isn’t just about transforming education but how education can transform the world. Join the movement alongside students, parents, educators, and global partners as we roll up our sleeves for three days of collaboration, problem solving, inspiration and celebration. Join innovative educators, dedicated partners []
