Single image haze removal has been a challenging problem due to its ill-posed nature. In this paper, we propose a simple but powerful color attenuation prior for haze removal from a single input hazy image. By creating a linear model for modeling the scene depth of the hazy image under this novel prior and learning the parameters of the model with a supervised learning method, the depth informatio...
Continuous-domain visual signals are usually captured as discrete (digital) images. This operation is not invertible in general, in the sense that the continuous-domain signal cannot be exactly reconstructed based on the discrete image, unless it satisfies certain constraints (e.g., bandlimitedness). In this paper, we study the problem of recovering shape images with smooth boundaries from a set o...
Objective methods for assessing perceptual image quality traditionally attempted to quantify the visibility of errors (differences) between a distorted image and a reference image using a variety of known properties of the human visual system. Under the assumption that human visual perception is highly adapted for extracting structural information from a scene, we introduce an alternative compleme...
In this paper, we propose a novel deep convolutional neural network (CNN)-based algorithm for solving ill-posed inverse problems. Regularized iterative algorithms have emerged as the standard approach to ill-posed inverse problems in the past few decades. These methods produce excellent results, but can be challenging to deploy in practice due to factors including the high computational cost of th...
The discriminative model learning for image denoising has been recently attracting considerable attentions due to its favorable denoising performance. In this paper, we take one step forward by investigating the construction of feed-forward denoising convolutional neural networks (DnCNNs) to embrace the progress in very deep architecture, learning algorithm, and regularization method into image de...
Automatic recognition of an images style is important for many applications, including artwork analysis, photo organization, and image retrieval. Traditional convolution neural network (CNN) approach uses only object features for image style recognition. This approach may not be optimal, because the same object in two images may have different styles. We propose a CNN architecture with two pathwa...
This paper presents a new approach to single-image superresolution, based upon sparse signal representation. Research on image statistics suggests that image patches can be well-represented as a sparse linear combination of elements from an appropriately chosen over-complete dictionary. Inspired by this observation, we seek a sparse representation for each patch of the low-resolution input, and th...
Understanding and predicting the human visual attention mechanism is an active area of research in the fields of neuroscience and computer vision. In this paper, we propose DeepFix, a fully convolutional neural network, which models the bottom-up mechanism of visual attention via saliency prediction. Unlike classical works, which characterize the saliency map using various hand-crafted features, o...
A perceptual image fusion method is proposed that employs explicit luminance and contrast masking models. These models are combined to give the perceptual importance of each coefficient produced by the dual-tree complex wavelet transform of each input image. This combined model of perceptual importance is used to select which coefficients are retained and furthermore to determine how to present th...
This paper addresses the problem of online tracking and classification of multiple objects in an image sequence. Our proposed solution is to first track all objects in the scene without relying on object-specific prior knowledge, which in other systems can take the form of hand-crafted features or user-based track initialization. We then classify the tracked objects with a fast-learning image clas...
One key challenging issue of facial expression recognition is to capture the dynamic variation of facial physical structure from videos. In this paper, we propose a part-based hierarchical bidirectional recurrent neural network (PHRNN) to analyze the facial expression information of temporal sequences. Our PHRNN models facial morphological variations and dynamical evolution of expressions, which i...
This paper presents a new discriminative deep metric learning (DDML) method for face and kinship verification in wild conditions. While metric learning has achieved reasonably good performance in face and kinship verification, most existing metric learning methods aim to learn a single Mahalanobis distance metric to maximize the inter-class variations and minimize the intra-class variations, which...
Age estimation based on the human face remains a significant problem in computer vision and pattern recognition. In order to estimate an accurate age or age group of a facial image, most of the existing algorithms require a huge face data set attached with age labels. This imposes a constraint on the utilization of the immensely unlabeled or weakly labeled training data, e.g., the huge amount of h...
Style transfer is a process of migrating a style from a given image to the content of another, synthesizing a new image, which is an artistic mixture of the two. Recent work on this problem adopting convolutional neural-networks (CNN) ignited a renewed interest in this field, due to the very impressive results obtained. There exists an alternative path toward handling the style transfer task, via ...
A generalized framework for numerical differentiation (ND) is proposed for constructing a finite impulse response (FIR) filter in closed form. The framework regulates the frequency response of ND filters for arbitrary derivative-order and cutoff frequency selected parameters relying on interpolating power polynomials and maximally flat design techniques. Compared with the state-of-the-art solution...
In this paper, a novel joint sparse representation method is proposed for robust face recognition. We embed both group sparsity and kernelized locality-sensitive constraints into the framework of sparse representation. The group sparsity constraint is designed to utilize the grouped structure information in the training data. The local similarity between test and training data is measured in the k...
In this paper, we consider an image decomposition model that provides a novel framework for image denoising. The model computes the components of the image to be processed in a moving frame that encodes its local geometry (directions of gradients and level lines). Then, the strategy we develop is to denoise the components of the image in the moving frame in order to preserve its local geometry, wh...
Pedestrian detection based on the combination of convolutional neural network (CNN) and traditional handcrafted features (i.e., HOGLUV) has achieved great success. In general, HOGLUV are used to generate the candidate proposals and then CNN classifies these proposals. Despite its success, there is still room for improvement. For example, CNN classifies these proposals by the fully ...
Multi-label problems arise in various domains, including automatic multimedia data categorization, and have generated significant interest in computer vision and machine learning community. However, existing methods do not adequately address two key challenges: exploiting correlations between labels and making up for the lack of labelled data or even missing labelled data. In this paper, we propos...
Low-delay hierarchical coding structure (LD-HCS), as one of the most important components in the latest High Efficiency Video Coding (HEVC) standard, greatly improves coding performance. It groups consecutive P/B frames into different layers and encodes them with different quantization parameters (QPs) and reference mechanisms in such a way that temporal dependency among frames can be exploited. H...
We address the task of single depth image inpainting. Without the corresponding color images, previous or next frames, depth image inpainting is quite challenging. One natural solution is to regard the image as a matrix and adopt the low rank regularization just as color image inpainting. However, the low rank assumption does not make full use of the properties of depth images. A shallow observati...
We address the image denoising problem, where zero-mean white and homogeneous Gaussian additive noise is to be removed from a given image. The approach taken is based on sparse and redundant representations over trained dictionaries. Using the K-SVD algorithm, we obtain a dictionary that describes the image content effectively. Two training options are considered: using the corrupted image itself,...
One of the major challenges in anatomical landmark detection, based on deep neural networks, is the limited availability of medical imaging data for network learning. To address this problem, we present a two-stage task-oriented deep learning method to detect large-scale anatomical landmarks simultaneously in real time, using limited training data. Specifically, our method consists of two deep con...
We propose a new, cost-efficient method for computing back projections in parallel-ray X-ray CT. Forward and back projections are the basis of almost all X-ray CT reconstruction methods, but computing these accurately is costly. In the special case of parallel-ray geometry, it turns out that reconstruction requires back projection only. One approach to accelerate the back projection is through int...
We propose multi-task and multivariate methods for multi-modal recognition based on low-rank and joint sparse representations. Our formulations can be viewed as generalized versions of multivariate low-rank and sparse regression, where sparse and low-rank representations across all modalities are imposed. One of our methods simultaneously couples information within different modalities by enforcin...
Unsupervised outlier detection is a vital task and has high impact on a wide variety of applications domains, such as image analysis and video surveillance. It also gains long-standing attentions and has been extensively studied in multiple research areas. Detecting and taking action on outliers as quickly as possible are imperative in order to protect network and related stakeholders or to mainta...
Illumination decomposition for a single photograph is an important and challenging problem in image editing operation. In this paper, we present a novel coarse-to-fine strategy to perform illumination decomposition for photograph with multiple light sources. We first reconstruct the lighting environment of the image using the estimated geometry structure of the scene. With the position of lights, ...
We propose a novel image denoising strategy based on an enhanced sparse representation in transform domain. The enhancement of the sparsity is achieved by grouping similar 2D image fragments (e.g., blocks) into 3D data arrays which we call "groups." Collaborative Altering is a special procedure developed to deal with these 3D groups. We realize it using the three successive steps: 3D transformatio...
This paper proposes a novel depth-aware salient object detection and segmentation framework via multiscale discriminative saliency fusion (MDSF) and bootstrap learning for RGBD images (RGB color images with corresponding Depth maps) and stereoscopic images. By exploiting low-level feature contrasts, mid-level feature weighted factors and high-level location priors, various saliency measures on fou...
Degradation in visibility is often introduced to images captured in poor weather conditions, such as fog or haze. To overcome this problem, conventional approaches focus mainly on the enhancement of the overall image contrast. However, because of the unspecified light-source distribution or unsuitable mathematical constraints of the cost functions, it is often difficult to achieve quality results....
We propose a new model for active contours to detect objects in a given image, based on techniques of curve evolution, Mumford-Shah (1989) functional for segmentation and level sets. Our model can detect objects whose boundaries are not necessarily defined by the gradient. We minimize an energy which can be seen as a particular case of the minimal partition problem. In the level set formulation, t...
Image quality assessment (IQA) aims to use computational models to measure the image quality consistently with subjective evaluations. The well-known structural similarity index brings IQA from pixel- to structure-based stage. In this paper, a novel feature similarity (FSIM) index for full reference IQA is proposed based on the fact that human visual system (HVS) understands an image mainly accord...
The rapidly increasing number of images on the internet has further increased the need for efficient indexing for digital image searching of large databases. The design of a cloud service that provides high efficiency but compact image indexing remains challenging, partly due to the well-known semantic gap between user queries and the rich semantics of large-scale data sets. In this paper, we cons...
We extensively compare, qualitatively and quantitatively, 41 state-of-the-art models (29 salient object detection, 10 fixation prediction, 1 objectness, and 1 baseline) over seven challenging data sets for the purpose of benchmarking salient object detection and segmentation methods. From the results obtained so far, our evaluation shows a consistent rapid progress over the last few years in terms...
In this paper, we describe a novel deep convolutional neural network (CNN) that is deeper and wider than other existing deep networks for hyperspectral image classification. Unlike current state-of-the-art approaches in CNN-based hyperspectral image classification, the proposed network, called contextual deep CNN, can optimally explore local contextual interactions by jointly exploiting local spat...
Minimum-cost flow algorithms have recently achieved state-of-the-art results in multi-object tracking. However, they rely on the whole image sequence as input. When deployed in real-time applications or in distributed settings, these algorithms first operate on short batches of frames and then stitch the results into full trajectories. This decoupled strategy is prone to errors because the batch-b...
This paper presents a new Bayesian estimation technique for hidden Potts-Markov random fields with unknown regularisation parameters, with application to fast unsupervised K-class image segmentation. The technique is derived by first removing the regularisation parameter from the Bayesian model by marginalisation, followed by a small-variance-asymptotic (SVA) analysis in which the spatial regulari...
For many image processing and computer vision problems, data points are in matrix form. Traditional methods often convert a matrix into a vector and then use vector-based approaches. They will ignore the location of matrix elements and the converted vector often has high dimensionality. How to select features for 2D matrix data directly is still an uninvestigated important issue. In this paper, we...
This paper presents a technique for motion detection that incorporates several innovative mechanisms. For example, our proposed technique stores, for each pixel, a set of values taken in the past at the same location or in the neighborhood. It then compares this set to the current pixel value in order to determine whether that pixel belongs to the background, and adapts the model by choosing rando...
In this correspondence, a completed modeling of the local binary pattern (LBP) operator is proposed and an associated completed LBP (CLBP) scheme is developed for texture classification. A local region is represented by its center pixel and a local difference sign-magnitude transform (LDSMT). The center pixels represent the image gray level and they are converted into a binary code, namely CLBP-Ce...
Gaussian process regression (GPR) is an effective statistical learning method for modeling non-linear mapping from an observed space to an expected latent space. When applying it to example learning-based super-resolution (SR), two outstanding issues remain. One is its high computational complexity restricts SR application when a large data set is available for learning task. The other is that the...
Human action recognition is an important yet challenging task. This paper presents a low-cost descriptor called 3D histograms of texture (3DHoTs) to extract discriminant features from a sequence of depth maps. 3DHoTs are derived from projecting depth frames onto three orthogonal Cartesian planes, i.e., the frontal, side, and top planes, and thus compactly characterize the salient information of a ...
Toward weather condition recognition, we emphasize the importance of regional cues in this paper and address a few important problems regarding appropriate representation, its differentiation among regions, and weather-condition feature construction. Our major contribution is, first, to construct a multi-class benchmark data set containing 65 000 images from six common categories for sunny, cloudy...
In this paper, an accurate full-reference image quality assessment (IQA) model developed for assessing screen content images (SCIs), called the edge similarity (ESIM), is proposed. It is inspired by the fact that the human visual system (HVS) is highly sensitive to edges that are often encountered in SCIs; therefore, essential edge features are extracted and exploited for conducting IQA for the SC...
Making recognition more reliable under uncontrolled lighting conditions is one of the most important challenges for practical face recognition systems. We tackle this by combining the strengths of robust illumination normalization, local texture-based face representations, distance transform based matching, kernel-based feature extraction and multiple feature fusion. Specifically, we make three ma...
In this paper, we propose a very simple deep learning network for image classification that is based on very basic data processing components: 1) cascaded principal component analysis (PCA); 2) binary hashing; and 3) blockwise histograms. In the proposed architecture, the PCA is employed to learn multistage filter banks. This is followed by simple binary hashing and block histograms for indexing a...
In this paper, we investigate the visual attention modeling for stereoscopic video from the following two aspects. First, we build one large-scale eye tracking database as the benchmark of visual attention modeling for stereoscopic video. The database includes 47 video sequences and their corresponding eye fixation data. Second, we propose a novel computational model of visual attention for stereo...
This paper presents a robust and efficient method for license plate detection with the purpose of accurately localizing vehicle license plates from complex scenes in real time. A simple yet effective image downscaling method is first proposed to substantially accelerate license plate localization without sacrificing detection performance compared with that achieved using the original image. Furthe...
Super-resolution reconstruction produces one or a set of high-resolution images from a set of low-resolution images. In the last two decades, a variety of super-resolution methods have been proposed. These methods are usually very sensitive to their assumed model of data and noise, which limits their utility. This paper reviews some of these methods and addresses their shortcomings. We propose an ...
We develop a novel optimization algorithm, which we call nested non-linear conjugate gradient (CG) algorithm (NNCG), for image restoration based on quadratic data fitting and smooth non-quadratic regularization. The algorithm is constructed as a nesting of two conjugate gradient iterations. The outer iteration is constructed as a preconditioned non-linear CG algorithm; the preconditioning is perfo...
The IEEE Transactions on Image Processing covers novel theory, algorithms, and architectures for the formation, capture, processing, communication, analysis, and display of images, video, and multidimensional signals in a wide variety of applications. Topics of interest include, but are not limited to, the mathematical, statistical, and perceptual modeling, representation, formation, coding, filtering, enhancement, restoration, rendering, halftoning, search, and analysis of images, video, and multidimensional signals. Applications of interest include image and video communications, electronic imaging, biomedical imaging, image and video systems, and remote sensing.
Indexed in Pubmed and Medline, products of the United States National Laboratory of Medicine
