IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems publishes technical articles that deal with the theory, design, and applications of neural networks and related learning systems.
Extreme learning machine (ELM) is an emerging learning algorithm for the generalized single hidden layer feedforward neural networks, of which the hidden node parameters are randomly generated and the output weights are analytically computed. However, due to its shallow architecture, feature learning using ELM may not be effective for natural signals (e.g., images/videos), even with a large number...
Feature selection (FS) is an important component of many pattern recognition tasks. In these tasks, one is often confronted with very high-dimensional data. FS algorithms are designed to identify the relevant feature subset from the original features, which can facilitate subsequent analysis, such as clustering and classification. Structured sparsity-inducing feature selection (SSFS) methods have ...
Hierarchical neural networks have been shown to be effective in learning representative image features and recognizing object classes. However, most existing networks combine the low/middle level cues for classification without accounting for any spatial structures. For applications such as understanding a scene, how the visual cues are spatially distributed in an image becomes essential for succe...
Can we train the computer to beat experienced traders for financial assert trading? In this paper, we try to address this challenge by introducing a recurrent deep neural network (NN) for real-time financial signal representation and trading. Our model is inspired by two biological-related learning concepts of deep learning (DL) and reinforcement learning (RL). In the framework, the DL part automa...
Deep convolutional neural networks (DCNNs) have become a very powerful tool in visual perception. DCNNs have applications in autonomous robots, security systems, mobile phones, and automobiles, where high throughput of the feedforward evaluation phase and power efficiency are important. Because of this increased usage, many field-programmable gate array (FPGA)-based accelerators have been proposed...
This paper presents a novel change detection approach for synthetic aperture radar images based on deep learning. The approach accomplishes the detection of the changed and unchanged areas by designing a deep neural network. The main guideline is to produce a change detection map directly from two images with the trained deep neural network. The method can omit the process of generating a differen...
With the emergence of online social networks, the social network-based recommendation approach is popularly used. The major benefit of this approach is the ability of dealing with the problems with cold-start users. In addition to social networks, user trust information also plays an important role to obtain reliable recommendations. Although matrix factorization (MF) becomes dominant in recommend...
Understanding the progression of chronic diseases can empower the sufferers in taking proactive care. To predict the disease status in the future time points, various machine learning approaches have been proposed. However, a few of them jointly consider the dual heterogeneities of chronic disease progression. In particular, the predicting task at each time point has features from multiple sources...
In this paper, we review different memristive threshold logic (MTL) circuits that are inspired from the synaptic action of the flow of neurotransmitters in the biological brain. The brainlike generalization ability and the area minimization of these threshold logic circuits aim toward crossing Moores law boundaries at device, circuits, and systems levels. Fast switching memory, signal processing,...
Electrical power systems are evolving from todays centralized bulk systems to more decentralized systems. Penetrations of renewable energies, such as wind and solar power, significantly increase the level of uncertainty in power systems. Accurate load forecasting becomes more complex, yet more important for management of power systems. Traditional methods for generating point forecasts of load de...
This paper tries to separate fine-grained images by jointly learning the encoding parameters and codebooks through low-rank sparse coding (LRSC) with general and class-specific codebook generation. Instead of treating each local feature independently, we encode the local features within a spatial region jointly by LRSC. This ensures that the spatially nearby local features with similar visual char...
In this paper, we investigate the adaptive exponential synchronization in both the mean square and the almost sure senses for an array of N identical Markovian stochastic coupled neural networks of neutral-type with time-varying delay and random coupling strength. The generalized Lyapunov theorem of the exponential stability in the mean square for the neutral stochastic Markov system with the time...
This paper presents the development of an intelligent dynamic energy management system (I-DEMS) for a smart microgrid. An evolutionary adaptive dynamic programming and reinforcement learning framework is introduced for evolving the I-DEMS online. The I-DEMS is an optimal or near-optimal DEMS capable of performing grid-connected and islanded microgrid operations. The primary sources of energy are s...
This paper presents the design of a novel adaptive event-triggered control method based on the heuristic dynamic programming (HDP) technique for nonlinear discrete-time systems with unknown system dynamics. In the proposed method, the control law is only updated when the event-triggered condition is violated. Compared with the periodic updates in the traditional adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) ...
This paper investigates the multirate networked industrial process control problem in double-layer architecture. First, the output tracking problem for sampled-data nonlinear plant at device layer with sampling period Td is investigated using adaptive neural network (NN) control, and it is shown that the outputs of subsystems at device layer can track the decomposed setpoints. Then, the...
Minimax probability machine (MPM) is an interesting discriminative classifier based on generative prior knowledge. It can directly estimate the probabilistic accuracy bound by minimizing the maximum probability of misclassification. The structural information of data is an effective way to represent prior knowledge, and has been found to be vital for designing classifiers in real-world problems. H...
This paper focuses on the adaptive trajectory tracking control for a remotely operated vehicle (ROV) with an unknown dynamic model and the unmeasured states. Unlike most previous trajectory tracking control approaches, in this paper, the velocity states and the angular velocity states in the body-fixed frame are unmeasured, and the thrust model is inaccurate. Obviously, it is more in line with the...
Timely detection and identification of faults in railway track circuits are crucial for the safety and availability of railway networks. In this paper, the use of the long-short-term memory (LSTM) recurrent neural network is proposed to accomplish these tasks based on the commonly available measurement signals. By considering the signals from multiple track circuits in a geographic area, faults ar...
We propose a robust recurrent kernel online learning (RRKOL) algorithm based on the celebrated real-time recurrent learning approach that exploits the kernel trick in a recurrent online training manner. The novel RRKOL algorithm guarantees weight convergence with regularized risk management through the use of adaptive recurrent hyperparameters for superior generalization performance. Based on a ne...
The memristor has been extensively studied in electrical engineering and biological sciences as a means to compactly implement the synaptic function in neural networks. The cellular neural network (CNN) is one of the most implementable artificial neural network models and capable of massively parallel analog processing. In this paper, a novel memristive multilayer CNN (Mm-CNN) model is presented a...
This paper studies the synchronization problem of coupled delayed multistable neural networks (NNs) with directed topology. To begin with, several sufficient conditions are developed in terms of algebraic inequalities such that every subnetwork has multiple locally exponentially stable periodic orbits or equilibrium points. Then two new concepts named dynamical multisynchronization (DMS) and stati...
In this paper, new results on the global synchronization of multiple recurrent neural networks (NNs) with time delays via impulsive interactions are presented. Impulsive interaction means that a number of NNs communicate with each other at impulse instants only, while they are independent at the remaining time. The communication topology among NNs is not required to be always connected and can swi...
Transfer learning (TL) aims at solving the problem of learning an effective classification model for a target category, which has few training samples, by leveraging knowledge from source categories with far more training data. We propose a new discriminative TL (DTL) method, combining a series of hypotheses made by both the model learned with target training samples and the additional models lear...
While modeling nonlinear systems by combining a linear model with a nonlinear compensation term, namely, virtual unmodeled dynamics (VUD), the parameter estimation of the linear model and the learning-based VUD estimate influences and interacts with each other simultaneously. This paper aims to develop an alternating identification scheme for resolving such a challenging problem, where a projectio...
This paper is concerned with the problem of adaptive tracking control for a class of uncertain nonlinear systems with nonsymmetric input saturation and immeasurable states. The radial basis function of neural network (NN) is employed to approximate unknown functions, and an NN state observer is designed to estimate the immeasurable states. To analyze the effect of input saturation, an auxiliary sy...
Recognizing the samples belonging to one class in a heterogeneous data set is a very interesting but tough machine learning task. Some samples of the data set can be actual outliers or members of other classes for which training examples are lacking. In contrast to other kernel approaches present in the literature, in this work, the problem is faced defining a one-class kernel machine that deliver...
Applying the pinball loss in a support vector machine (SVM) classifier results in pin-SVM. The pinball loss is characterized by a parameter . Its value is related to the quantile level and different  values are suitable for different problems. In this paper, we establish an algorithm to find the entire solution path for pin-SVM with different  values. This algorithm is base...
In this paper, we propose a new unsupervised spectral feature selection model by embedding a graph regularizer into the framework of joint sparse regression for preserving the local structures of data. To do this, we first extract the bases of training data by previous dictionary learning methods and, then, map original data into the basis space to generate their new representations, by proposing ...
Several variants of the long short-term memory (LSTM) architecture for recurrent neural networks have been proposed since its inception in 1995. In recent years, these networks have become the state-of-the-art models for a variety of machine learning problems. This has led to a renewed interest in understanding the role and utility of various computational components of typical LSTM variants. In t...
An adaptive neural control strategy for multiple input multiple output nonlinear systems with various constraints is presented in this paper. To deal with the nonsymmetric input nonlinearity and the constrained states, the proposed adaptive neural control is combined with the backstepping method, radial basis function neural network, barrier Lyapunov function (BLF), and disturbance observer. By en...
In this paper, an adaptive control approach-based neural approximation is developed for a class of uncertain nonlinear discrete-time (DT) systems. The main characteristic of the considered systems is that they can be viewed as a class of multi-input multioutput systems in the nonstrict feedback structure. The similar control problem of this class of systems has been addressed in the past, but it f...
In this paper, we present a novel approach for studying Boolean function in a graph-theoretic perspective. In particular, we first transform a Boolean function f of n variables into an induced subgraph Hf of the n-dimensional hypercube, and then, we show the properties of linearly separable Boolean functions on the basis of the analysis of the structure of Hf . We define a new class of graphs, cal...
Deep hierarchical representations of the data have been found out to provide better informative features for several machine learning applications. In addition, multilayer neural networks surprisingly tend to achieve better performance when they are subject to an unsupervised pretraining. The booming of deep learning motivates researchers to identify the factors that contribute to its success. One...
Convolutional sparse coding (CSC) can model local connections between image content and reduce the code redundancy when compared with patch-based sparse coding. However, CSC needs a complicated optimization procedure to infer the codes (i.e., feature maps). In this brief, we proposed a convolutional sparse auto-encoder (CSAE), which leverages the structure of the convolutional AE and incorporates ...
Learning from demonstrations is a paradigm by which an apprentice agent learns a control policy for a dynamic environment by observing demonstrations delivered by an expert agent. It is usually implemented as either imitation learning (IL) or inverse reinforcement learning (IRL) in the literature. On the one hand, IRL is a paradigm relying on the Markov decision processes, where the goal of the ap...
There are plenty of classification methods that perform well when training and testing data are drawn from the same distribution. However, in real applications, this condition may be violated, which causes degradation of classification accuracy. Domain adaptation is an effective approach to address this problem. In this paper, we propose a general domain adaptation framework from the perspective o...
This paper develops a coarse-to-fine framework for single-image super-resolution (SR) reconstruction. The coarse-to-fine approach achieves high-quality SR recovery based on the complementary properties of both example learning-and reconstruction-based algorithms: example learning-based SR approaches are useful for generating plausible details from external exemplars but poor at suppressing aliasin...
This paper focuses on the connecting structure of deep neural networks and proposes a layerwise structure learning method based on multiobjective optimization. A model with better generalization can be obtained by reducing the connecting parameters in deep networks. The aim is to find the optimal structure with high representation ability and better generalization for each layer. Then, the visible...
While active learning (AL) has been widely studied for classification problems, limited efforts have been done on AL for regression. In this paper, we introduce a new AL framework for regression, expected model change maximization (EMCM), which aims at choosing the unlabeled data instances that result in the maximum change of the current model once labeled. The model change is quantified as the di...
The special importance of L1/2 regularization has been recognized in recent studies on sparse modeling (particularly on compressed sensing). The L1/2 regularization, however, leads to a nonconvex, nonsmooth, and non-Lipschitz optimization problem that is difficult to solve fast and efficiently. In this paper, through developing a threshoding representation theory for L1/...
This paper investigates how to blindly evaluate the visual quality of an image by learning rules from linguistic descriptions. Extensive psychological evidence shows that humans prefer to conduct evaluations qualitatively rather than numerically. The qualitative evaluations are then converted into the numerical scores to fairly benchmark objective image quality assessment (IQA) metrics. Recently, ...
This paper presents a collective neurodynamic approach with multiple interconnected recurrent neural networks (RNNs) for distributed constrained optimization. The objective function of the distributed optimization problems to be solved is a sum of local convex objective functions, which may be nonsmooth. Subject to its local constraints, each local objective function is minimized individually by u...
This paper proposes a novel, smart energy management scheme for a microgrid, consisting of a diesel generator and power electronic converter interfaced renewable energy-based generators, such as photovoltaic (PV) and fuel cell, for frequency regulation without any storage. In the proposed strategy, output of the PV is controlled in coordination with other generators using neurofuzzy controller, ei...
Obtaining a sufficient number of accurate labels to form a training set for learning a classifier can be difficult due to the limited access to reliable label resources. Instead, in real-world applications, less-accurate labels, such as labels from nonexpert labelers, are often used. However, learning with less-accurate labels can lead to serious performance deterioration because of the high noise...
L2-rescale boosting (L2-RBoosting) is a variant of L2-Boosting, which can essentially improve the generalization performance of L2-Boosting. The key feature of L2-RBoosting lies in introducing a shrinkage degree to rescale the ensemble estimate in each iteration. Thus, the shrinkage degree determines the performance of L2-RBoosting....
Learning a distance metric in feature space potentially improves the performance of the K nearest neighbor classifier and is useful in many real-world applications. Many metric learning (ML) algorithms are, however, based on the point estimation of a quadratic optimization problem, which is time-consuming, susceptible to overfitting, and lacks a natural mechanism to reason with parameter uncertain...
A major progress in deep multilayer neural networks (DNNs) is the invention of various unsupervised pretraining methods to initialize network parameters which lead to good prediction accuracy. This paper presents the sparseness analysis on the hidden unit in the pretraining process. In particular, we use the $L_{1}$ -norm to m...
In this paper, the problem of adaptive neural output-feedback control is addressed for a class of multi-input multioutput (MIMO) switched uncertain nonlinear systems with unknown control gains. Neural networks (NNs) are used to approximate unknown nonlinear functions. In order to avoid the conservativeness caused by adoption of a common observer for all subsystems, an MIMO NN switched observer is ...
This paper proposes a generalized prediction system called a recurrent self-evolving fuzzy neural network (RSEFNN) that employs an on-line gradient descent learning rule to address the electroencephalography (EEG) regression problem in brain dynamics for driving fatigue. The cognitive states of drivers significantly affect driving safety; in particular, fatigue driving, or drowsy driving, endanger...
This paper examines the problem of asymptotic stability for Markovian jump generalized neural networks with interval time-varying delays. Markovian jump parameters are modeled as a continuous-time and finite-state Markov chain. By constructing a suitable Lyapunov-Krasovskii functional (LKF) and using the linear matrix inequality (LMI) formulation, new delay-dependent stability conditions are estab...
IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems publishes technical articles that deal with the theory, design, and applications of neural networks and related learning systems.
IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems publishes technical articles that deal with the theory, design, and applications of neural networks and related learning systems. Emphasis will be given to artificial neural networks and learning systems.
IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems special section on deep reinforcement learning and adaptive dynamic programming
