 Web DevelopmentBig Data & Business IntelligenceApplication DevelopmentVirtualization & CloudGame DevelopmentNetworking & ServersHardware & CreativeBusiness 
 Get a paperback copy of the book delivered to you
 DRM FREE - read and interact with your content when you want, where you want, and how you want
AI and Deep Learning are transforming the way we understand software, making computers more intelligent than we could even imagine just a decade ago. Deep Learning algorithms are being used across a broad range of industries – as the fundamental driver of AI, being able to tackle Deep Learning is going to a vital and valuable skill not only within the tech world but also for the wider global economy that depends upon knowledge and insight for growth and success. It’s something that’s moving beyond the realm of data science – if you’re a Java developer, this book gives you a great opportunity to expand your skillset.
Starting with an introduction to basic machine learning algorithms, to give you a solid foundation, Deep Learning with Java takes you further into this vital world of stunning predictive insights and remarkable machine intelligence. Once you’ve got to grips with the fundamental mathematical principles, you’ll start exploring neural networks and identify how to tackle challenges in large networks using advanced algorithms. You will learn how to use the DL4J library and apply Deep Learning to a range of real-world use cases. Featuring further guidance and insights to help you solve challenging problems in image processing, speech recognition, language modeling, this book will make you rethink what you can do with Java, showing you how to use it for truly cutting-edge predictive insights. As a bonus, you’ll also be able to get to grips with Theano and Caffe, two of the most important tools in Deep Learning today.
By the end of the book, you’ll be ready to tackle Deep Learning with Java. Wherever you’ve come from – whether you’re a data scientist or Java developer – you will become a part of the Deep Learning revolution!
Get a practical deep dive into machine learning and deep learning algorithms
Explore neural networks using some of the most popular Deep Learning frameworks
Discover more deep learning algorithms with Dropout and Convolutional Neural Networks
Gain an insight into the deep learning library DL4J and its practical uses
Get to know device strategies to use deep learning algorithms and libraries in the real world
Yusuke Sugomori is a creative technologist with a background in information engineering. When he was a graduate school student, he cofounded Gunosy with his colleagues, which uses machine learning and web-based data mining to determine individual users' respective interests and provides an optimized selection of daily news items based on those interests. This algorithm-based app has gained a lot of attention since its release and now has more than 10 million users. The company has been listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange since April 28, 2015.
In 2013, Sugomori joined Dentsu, the largest advertising company in Japan based on nonconsolidated gross profit in 2014, where he carried out a wide variety of digital advertising, smartphone app development, and big data analysis. He was also featured as one of eight "new generation" creators by the Japanese magazine Web Designing.
In April 2016, he joined a medical start-up as cofounder and CTO.
R gives you access to the cutting-edge software you need to prepare data for machine learning. No previous knowledge required – this book will take you methodically through every stage of applying machine learning.
We understand your time is important. Uniquely amongst the major publishers, we seek to develop and publish the broadest range of learning and information products on each technology. Every Packt product delivers a specific learning pathway, broadly defined by the Series type. This structured approach enables you to select the pathway which best suits your knowledge level, learning style and task objectives.
