South Australia Dept for Education and Childrens Services: Teaching for Effective Learning
Were delighted to announce a Special Section of the Journal of Learning Analytics, published this week, focusing on the challenge of Learning Analytics for 21st Century Competencies. In our editorial we introduce the nature of the challenge, and after summarising the different researcher and practitioner papers, propose a complex systems approach which takes seriously the layers, loops and processes of learning infrastructures and the iterative relationship between the human and the digital, where people learn at the nodes of networked flows of information. Learning analytics is an emerging field powered by the paradigm shifts of the information age. Pedagogy and learning that produce students capable of thriving in conditions of complexity, risk, and challenge by taking responsibility for their own learning journeys, and using technology and analytics[]
Weve all got used to the idea that computers can understand writing and speech to some degree — Google adverts that match your search queries asking Siri simple questions IBM Watson winning Jeopardy! But how does natural language processing fit into learning that goes beyond getting the right answer to a focused question, or matching some key concepts? Language is clearly front and centre in the way that we learn from others, share our understanding, and narrate to ourselves. However, the idea that computers have any substantive contribution to make to the teaching and assessment of writing elicits strong reactions from educators, and understandably so (learn more from this workshop). In recent work that weve been doing at University of Technology Sydney, were exploring to what extent text[]
The Learning Emergence team hosted an International Centre for Infrastructure Futures workshop at the Systems Centre  yesterday to explore the synergy between customer journeys as developed in the digital architecture of retail banking  and learning journeys as developed by the Bristol team to capture the personal and social processes which contribute to the development of resilient agency. the achievable goal of true customer at a time value management with many millions of customers Dec Blue Partner  Tim Crick, also a Learning Emergence Partner, showed how advanced customer decisioning technology can help organisations deliver agile and adaptive customer at a time value management strategies across digital, assisted and face-to-face  channels. This transformation in approach to customer management is radical  from a product/campaign centred approach to a[]
Good news: the Prime Minister is reconsidering his governments decision not to fund the remaining educational reforms recommended in 2011 by the Gonski Report. However, the depressing track record of so many school improvement efforts was highlighted last week when new education minister Simon Birmingham noted: We need to acknowledge that state and federal governments have ploughed lots more money into schools in recent years and with all of that extra money we havent necessarily seen improved educational outcomes […] Theres far more to getting better outcomes than just putting more money on the table. And he’s right. New work from Tony Bryk, President of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, in Australia this week, shows just why educational[]
Ruth, Chris and I are delighted to be hosting Tony Bryk this week, with colleagues at a series of events in Adelaide, Melbourne and Sydney. Tony is the leading figure in the Educational Improvement Science movement, and we look forward to stimulating conversation with colleagues at  the NSW and VIC Departments for Education, and leaders from diverse school contexts. Learn more. . .
