Seldon is an enterprise-grade open-source machine learning deployment platform that helps your organisation innovate faster. You keep full control of your data and models run anywhere.
We’re excited to announce Seldon Deploy — a new enterprise product that will be entering closed beta this summer. Seldon Deploy helps data science teams put machine learning models into production.
Seldon Deploy streamlines the data science workflow, with audit trails, advanced experiments, continuous integration and deployment, rolling updates, scaling, model explanations, and more — all served through a delicious UI. Seldon Deploy will perfectly complement our open-source machine learning platform.
To find out more about Seldon Deploy and why we’re building it, please check out this blog post and apply for the closed beta.
Seldon speeds up every step of a data scientist’s job, from processing data to prototyping algorithms and models. We provide the tools and frameworks that propel data scientists past common hurdles, allowing them to focus on solving the last 10% of any problem.
Whatever the metric – user engagement, product sales, conversion rates – machines and algorithms can help you more effectively reach your goals. Leverage the data you have to prioritize your time, work more effectively, and help customers make better decisions.
Deliver personalized recommendations that keep people wanting more, and give them something to smile about. Seldon improves the lives of everyone involved in your business, from data science and sales teams all the way down to your final customer.
Seldon helps your data science teams work better together at every stage of a data science project, including data ingestion, building models, deployment and optimisation.
Give people content and products they’ll care about. Capture and log user actions via Seldon’s REST API, and use that data to update user models and deliver up-to-date recommendations. Seldon operates as a set of inter-connected components across multiple layers (real-time, storage, offline, stats), giving the flexibility to swap in your own components and build an infrastructure that makes sense for you.
Let’s say you wish to predict the lifetime value of a customer, or predict what products they’re likely to buy. Use Seldon to build supervised, learning-based predictive models, and put them into production at scale. Send raw JSON data to Seldon via its REST API to create a predictive pipeline, then extract and transform features to build models that can be used to deliver predictions at runtime and at scale.
