 Deep learning is applicable to a widening range of artificial intelligence problems, such as image classification, speech recognition, text classification, question answering, text-to-speech, and optical character recognition. It is the technology behind photo tagging systems at Facebook and Google, self-driving cars, speech recognition systems on your smartphone, and much more.
In particular, Deep learning excels at solving machine perception problems: understanding the content of image data, video data, or sound data. Here's a simple example: say you have a large collection of images, and that you want tags associated with each image, for example, "dog," "cat," etc. Deep learning can allow you to create a system that understands how to map such tags to images, learning only from examples. This system can then be applied to new images, automating the task of photo tagging. A deep learning model only has to be fed examples of a task to start generating useful results on new data.
"Examples chosen are not only useful but also highlight the flexibility of deep learning in solving problems in many different fields. The author makes a great job of both introducing the reader to deep learning and the Keras library. "
"All of the major topics and concepts of DL are covered and well explained, using code examples and diagrams, instead of mathematical formulas."
 Keras is one of the most widely used deep learning frameworks for Python. Keras puts ease of use and accessibility front and center, making it a great fit for getting started with deep learning. Besides being easy to work with, it is suitable for the most advanced use cases as well: almost all deep learning competitions on Kaggle.com are won using Keras code.
 Deep Learning with Python is for developers with some Python experience who want to learn how to use deep learning to solve real-world problems. The book is structured around a series of practical code examples that illustrate each new concept introduced and demonstrate best practices. You begin by finding out what deep learning is, and how it connects with Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, as well as why deep learning is rapidly gaining in importance right now. You will then learn the fundamentals of machine learning, and finally, you will dive deeper into practical applications in computer vision, natural language processing, and more. By the time you reach the end of this book, you will have become a Keras expert and will be able to apply deep learning in your own projects.
Using recurrent neural networks to solve text and sequence classification tasks
Using deep learning for image style transfer, text generation and image generation
Written by the creator of Keras, the Python deep learning library
 Francois Chollet is the author of Keras, one of the most widely used libraries for deep learning in Python. He has been working with deep neural networks since 2012. Francois is currently doing deep learning research at Google. He blogs about deep learning at blog.keras.io.
