 Artificial Intelligence is one of the most exciting technologies of the century, and Deep Learning is in many ways the "brain" behind some of the world's smartest Artificial Intelligence systems out there. Loosely based on neuron behavior inside of human brains, these systems are rapidly catching up with the intelligence of their human creators, defeating the world champion Go player, achieving superhuman performance on video games, driving cars, translating languages, and sometimes even helping law enforcement fight crime. Deep Learning is a revolution that is changing every industry across the globe.
Grokking Deep Learning is the perfect place to begin your deep learning journey. Rather than just learn the "black box" API of some library or framework, you will actually understand how to build these algorithms completely from scratch. You will understand how Deep Learning is able to learn at levels greater than humans. You will be able to understand the "brain" behind state-of-the-art Artificial Intelligence. Furthermore, unlike other courses that assume advanced knowledge of Calculus and leverage complex mathematical notation, if you're a Python hacker who passed high-school algebra, you're ready to go. And at the end, you'll even build an A.I. that will learn to defeat you in a classic Atari game.
 Artificial Intelligence is one of the most exciting technologies of the century, and Deep Learning is in many ways the "brain" behind some of the world's smartest Artificial Intelligence systems out there.
You will build neural networks that can see and understand images
You will build neural networks that can translate text between languages and even write like Shakespeare
You will build neural networks that can learn how to play videogames
 Andrew Trask is a PhD student at Oxford University, funded by the Oxford-DeepMind Graduate Scholarship, where he researches Deep Learning approaches with special emphasis on human language. Previously, Andrew was a researcher and analytics product manager at Digital Reasoning where he trained the world's largest artificial neural network with over 160 billion parameters, and helped guide the analytics roadmap for the Synthesys cognitive computing platform which tackles some of the most complex analysis tasks across government intelligence, finance, and healthcare industries.
