This is the architecture that i am trying to implement . The architecture and Parse27k dataset was created and constructed by Computer Vision Group at the Visual Computing Institute, RWTH Aachen University .
Below you can see my models that i need to improve : 
As seen above, my model does not include custom-loss layer. My model is almost caffeNet architecture. But i should replace my last layer which is inside the red box with custom loss layer (green box).
As seen here number of rows(examples) in crops and in labels are same 27482. However i have 12 columns in my label datasets. And my model works when there is only 1 label. How i can make it to train for all labels? 
My model in the Train_val.prototxt is looking like this for now: 
 i am getting such an error message when i am executing it F1101 14:11:12.764832 7023 layer.hpp:374] Check failed: ExactNumBottomBlobs() == bottom.size() (2 vs. 13) Accuracy Layer takes 2 bottom blob(s) as input. I even tried to send just one of the attributes to loss and fc8 still same mistake. image link postimg.org/image/3yh66h8fp model prototxt document codepad.org/GfsLcWqn
 @MIRMIX look at the model you posted: i.stack.imgur.com/B7Cmq.png. As you can see you have a different loss (and accuracy) layer per attribute. You cannot have a single layer for all attributes. Work according to the plan you are trying to implement.
 i got it but still as i mentioned even when i am trying to do it for one attribute it gets me error message again . postimg.org/image/xrqzhgzz7 Should not it work for one label at least?
 @MIRMIX your model does not show the accuracty layer. This layer also works for only one attribute. Does your num_output of fc8 corresponds to the number of discrete labels ("states") of attr_00? Note that you should have different fc8 layers for each attribute. (and if you follow i.stack.imgur.com/B7Cmq.png closely, you need fc8_hidden and fc8 layers per attribute).
 1Deep Learning Caffe Save Test output labels3how to get learning rate or iteration times when define new layer in caffe0How to make a non-static Caffe network architecture?3Is it good learning rate for Adam method?1Transfer Learning and linear classifier1Caffe how to scale and set mean for the same dataset in prototyp1How to print the network architecture (prototxt) from solverstate file0How to write a solver.prototxt satisfy a given condition in CAFFE?3Different learning rate affect to batchnorm setting. Why?2Deep learning using Caffe - Python
