 I have tagged dataset with a,b,c tags and have to tag incoming sequences with a,b,c,others categories. It should categorize and tag known sequences or say i haven't seen it before.
 I'm using jupyter notebook to write a deep neural network code. I've encountered this problem when trying to create a DNNClassifier.
 I am trying to use the C++ API of CNTK to achieve online learning. While reading the source code of the unit tests and the CNTKLibrary.h header, I only saw the Trainer.TrainMinibatch method to train a ...
 I am using CAFFE tool to work with semantic segmentation. However, I want to change to use Tensorflow. My question is that can we have a real-time running in inference for semantic segmentation using ...
 I'm training a segmentation model with the U-net architecture. The input image size is 250x250.
Currently, I've manually tweaked the paddings of some of the convolutional layers to ensure that the ...
 Resource exhausted memory error when trying to train a Keras model
 I'm trying to train a VGG19 model for a binary image classification problem. My dataset doesn't fit into the memory, so I use batches and the .fit_generator function of the model.
 I'm trying to implement a neural network that classifies images into one of the two discrete categories. The problem is, however, that it currently always predicts 0 for any input and I'm not really ...
 I have a time series data as shown above, with X axis is time (Seconds) and Y axis is weight. So as circled in image, if there exist a pattern where group of points downward and immediately the point ...
 I am stuck on assignment from Andrew Ng DL-NN course. 
The code has a assertion when matrix gradient of the loss with respect to w ( dw ) must have the same shape of w ( .shape == ( 2, 1 ) ) but in ...
 Backpropagation from scratch  having trouble with some matrix multiplications
 I'm trying to implement a neural network from scratch and I'm having trouble correctly implementing the backpropagation. I feel like I'm either calling the wrong indexes of a weight/activation or I'm ...
 Wanted to do something like this - http://scribbler.eye.gatech.edu/paper.pdf. could someone point me to working model for this? They have mentioned building on (https://github.com/TengdaHan/...
 I have a huge trainData and I want to withdraw random subsets out of it (let's say 1000 times) and use them to train the nural network object successively. Is it possible to do by using neuralnet R ...
 How can I train a TensorFlow (or Keras, or Caffe) model to detect an object and also its distance from the camera?
 I have a dataset with 1000s of labeled images, only one class (cars) and also their respective distances from the camera at the moment the pictures were taken.
 GPU requirement for video summarizer using deep learning [on hold]
 I am working on video summarizer using SumMe dataset and access GPU with 5 GB memory. But when I run load the model for goes it goes out of memory. Even when one video at once with frames count of 200....
 I am doing a license plate detection program using YOLO. Since I don't have real data I have created 75K synthetic data. There is only one class: 'LicensePlate' .
 AttributeError: ‘LSTMStateTuple’ object has no attribute ‘get_shape’ while building a Seq2Seq Model using Tensorflow
 I am trying to work on Text Summarization using Amazon Reviews dataset. I am stuck at an error while building my model.
 I am trying to implement seq2seq model for text summarization using Tensorflow 1.3.0. 
I am trying to use MultiRNNCell and bidirectional_dynamic_rnn in encoding layer. I am missing something, but ...
 How to prevent Nearest Neighbour Interpolation in scipy Image.resize module to not normalize the images in scene parsing annotations
 I am trying to reduce the dimensions of my image using PIL.Image.NEAREST interpolation in Image.resize(). The problem is that these images are annotations for a scene parsing task. So the pixel values ...
 I am training a bi-directional multilayered Seq2Seq model. During training time, I see a lot of variation in my train loss witch each step of the training. 
 Calculate probability of test image resembling training image [on hold]
 I have my own dog images(unlabeled), and I want to check the probability of a test image being a dog image. How to go about it? Would a logistic regression work? What would be the labels then? Or any ...
 I'm planning to use the TensorFlow Object detection API to detect objects like Arrows in my images. I am creating my training dataset and labelling my images.
 I have trained a network with two convolution layers and two dense. 
then for some reason I need to add another convolution layer as first layer of network, So I add a layer and freeze other layers, ...
 Is there a way how we can implement Mean Square False error (MSFE) and MFE (Mean False Error) Loss function in python .
 And also can anyone suggest what is the best loss function to be used for ...
 Why do we usually use color speech spectrogram rather than grayscale speech spectrogram in speech recognition?
 I want to know why we usually use color speech spectrogram rather than grayscale speech spectrogram in speech recognition and why the former has better recorecognition reslut than the later.
 What is the meaning of hand crafted features in computer vision problems?
 Are these the features which are manually labeled by humans? or Is there any technique for obtaining these features. Is this related to learned features?
 I am a new user to caffe and I've basically made small modifications to the FCN model to train on my own data. I've noticed that after 680 iterations the loss has not changed. I thought maybe it was ...
 Input dimensionality using pre-trained CNNs in Keras for transfer learning
 I want to experiment with using some of the pre-trained CNN models available with the Keras library (e.g. Exception, ResNet50, etc) for feature extraction. I am trying to find out whether the input ...
 I'm currently trying to get into deep learning and I have a minor problem in understanding concerning CNNs. 
According to CS231n, the common formula for computing the output size of a conv. layer is ...
I have gained good understanding in the topic, but the data sets I have worked are pretty much ready to feed in the network(CIFAR) ,MNIST etc....
 How does the Tensorflow TrainingHelper know the vocab size used to decode?
 How does the decoder learn to map cell state to the vocab if we don't tell it the vocab size? In the tf dynamic decoding docs there's a code sample:
 I am using an ImageDataGenerator to augment my images. I need to get the y labels from the generator.
Example : I have 10 training images, 7 are label 0 and 3 are label 1. I want to increase training ...
I do know that dropout should be declared as a placeholder and keep_prob parameter during training and testing should be different. However still ...
 I am trying to create a Deep Q-Network (DQN) similar to Deepmind DQN3.0 using Tensorflow, but I am having some difficulties. I think that the cause is TensorFlow's auto-differential approach.
 HDF5 file is loaded multiple times when training dataset using Caffe
 I am training a dataset using hdf5 files and the log says the hdf5 file is loaded 3 times. I was wondering why is that?
 I successfully compiled Caffe under Ubuntu and started to study how to define and train my own networks. However, I'm having trouble to understand how the convolutional layer produces its output. For ...
 I am training a Super-Resolution Network in Keras. I have a training set with images of dimensions (64,64) and I have images of dimensions (128,128) that I want to use as a validation set. Does it ...
 I would like to know how to make sense of the tensor flow graphs/Histograms generated.
This graph is easy to understand Accuracy and loss are straight forward to ...
 No squeezenet.ckpt download, Network Visualization, assignment3, cs231n Spring 2017 [on hold]
 After I run the get_assignment3_data.sh, I got three files named squeezenet.ckpt**. But there is no squeezenet.ckpt needed.
 New to Keras, trying to reimplement this following binary image classification example from: https://blog.keras.io/building-powerful-image-classification-models-using-very-little-data.html
