 I finished my Ph.D. thesis in Department of Electronic Engineering of The Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK). My supervisor is Prof. Xiaogang Wang, and I also closely work with Prof. Wanli Ouyang. I am a member of both Multimedia Lab (MMLab) and Image and Video Processing Lab (IVPLab). 
 I received the Bachelor degree in Department of Electronic Engineering and Information Science (EEIS) from University of Science and Technology of China (USTC). While there, I was a member of Information Processing Center (IPC). 
IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2015. (Acceptance rate: 28.4%) 
 Low-level saliency cues or priors do not produce good enough saliency detection results especially when the salient object presents in a low-contrast background with confusing visual appearance. This issue raises a serious problem for conventional approaches. In this paper, we tackle this problem by proposing a multi-context deep learning framework for salient object detection. We employ deep Convolutional Neural Networks to model saliency of objects in images. Global context and local context are both taken into account, and are jointly modeled in a unified multi-context deep learning framework.
 To provide a better initialization for training the deep neural networks, we investigate different pre-training strategies, and a task-specific pre-training scheme is designed to make the multi-context modeling suited for saliency detection. Furthermore, recently proposed contemporary deep models in the ImageNet Image Classification Challenge are tested, and their effectiveness in saliency detection are investigated. Our approach is extensively evaluated on five public datasets, and experimental results show significant and consistent improvements over the state-of-the-art methods.
 Human eyes can recognize person identities based on small salient regions, i.e. human saliency is distinctive and reliable in pedestrian matching across disjoint camera views. However, such valuable information is often hidden when computing similarities of pedestrian images with existing approaches. Inspired by our user study result of human perception on human saliency, we propose a novel perspective for person re-identification based on learning human saliency and matching saliency distribution. The proposed saliency learning and matching framework consists of four steps: (1) To handle misalignment caused by drastic viewpoint change and pose variations, we apply adjacency constrained patch matching to build dense correspondence between image pairs. (2) We propose two alternative methods, i.e. K-Nearest Neighbors and One-class SVM, to estimate a saliency score for each image patch, through which distinctive features stand out without using identity labels in the training procedure. (3) saliency matching is proposed based on patch matching. Matching patches with inconsistent saliency brings penalty, and images of the same identity are recognized by minimizing the saliency matching cost. (4) Furthermore, saliency matching is tightly integrated with patch matching in a unified structural RankSVM learning framework. The effectiveness of our approach is validated on the VIPeR dataset and the CUHK01 dataset. Our approach outperforms the state-of-the-art person re-identification methods on both datasets.
 We present highly efficient algorithms for performing forward and backward propagation of Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) for pixelwise classification on images. For pixelwise classification tasks, such as image segmentation and object detection, surrounding image patches are fed into CNN for predicting the classes of centered pixels via forward propagation and for updating CNN parameters via backward propagation. However, forward and backward propagation was originally designed for whole-image classification. Directly applying it to pixelwise classification in a patch-by-patch scanning manner is extremely inefficient, because surrounding patches of pixels have large overlaps, which lead to a lot of redundant computation. 
 The proposed algorithms eliminate all the redundant computation in convolution and pooling on images by introducing novel d-regularly sparse kernels. It generates exactly the same results as those by patch-by-patch scanning. Convolution and pooling operations with such kernels are able to continuously access memory and can run efficiently on GPUs. A fraction of patches of interest can be chosen from each training image for backward propagation by applying a mask to the error map at the last CNN layer. Its computation complexity is constant with respect to the number of patches sampled from the image. Experiments have shown that our proposed algorithms speed up commonly used patch-by-patch scanning over 1500 times in both forward and backward propagation. The speedup increases with the sizes of images and patches.
IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2014. (Acceptance rate: 29.8%)
 Person re-identification is to match pedestrian images from disjoint camera views detected by pedestrian detectors. Challenges are presented in the form of complex variations of lightings, poses, viewpoints, blurring effects, image resolutions, camera settings, occlusions and background clutter across camera views. In addition, misalignment introduced by the pedestrian detector will affect most existing person re-identification methods that use manually cropped pedestrian images and assume perfect detection.
 In this paper, we propose a novel filter pairing neural network (FPNN) to jointly handle misalignment, photometric and geometric transforms, occlusions and background clutter. All the key components are jointly optimized to maximize the strength of each component when cooperating with others. In contrast to existing works that use handcrafted features, our method automatically learns features optimal for the re-identification task from data. The learned filter pairs encode photometric transforms. Its deep architecture makes it possible to model a mixture of complex photometric and geometric transforms. We build the largest benchmark re-id dataset with 13,164 images of 1,360 pedestrians. Unlike existing datasets, which only provide manually cropped pedestrian images, our dataset provides automatically detected bounding boxes for evaluation close to practical applications. Our neural network significantly outperforms state-of-the-art methods on this dataset.
 title = {DeepReid: Deep Filter Pairing Neural Network for Person Re-identification},
 author={Li, Wei and Zhao, Rui and Xiao, Tong and Wang, Xiaogang},
 booktitle = {IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR)},
IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2013. (Acceptance rate: 25.2%)
 Human eyes can recognize person identities based on some small salient regions. However, such valuable salient information is often hidden when computing similarities of images with existing approaches. Moreover, many existing approaches learn discriminative features and handle drastic viewpoint change in a supervised way and require labeling new training data for a different pair of camera views. In this paper, we propose a novel perspective for person re-identiﬁcation based on unsupervised salience learning. Distinctive features are extracted without requiring identity labels in the training procedure. First, we apply adjacency constrained patch matching to build dense correspondence between image pairs, which shows effectiveness in handling misalignment caused by large viewpoint and pose variations. Second, we learn human salience in an unsupervised manner. To improve the performance of person re-identiﬁcation, human salience is incorporated in patch matching to ﬁnd reliable and discriminative matched patches. The effectiveness of our approach is validated on the widely used VIPeR dataset and ETHZ dataset.
 booktitle = {IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR)},
 IEEE Transaction on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology (TCSVT)
 Elsevier Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation Registration (JVCI)
 CUHK03 Dataset : Person re-id dataset with 13, 164 images of 1, 360 pedestrians. This dataset provides both manually cropped pedestrian images and auto detected ones (using prevailing pedestrian detector).
