 ...e could forgive the uninitiated (be they laymen or tech-savvy individuals) for the casual confounding of terms such as "artificial intelligence" and "deep learning," among others. It seems these 2 terms, specifically, are moving increasingly close to one another, and the further one is removed from...
 First Steps of Learning Deep Learning: Image Classification in Keras
 Piotr Migdał, deepsense.io. I teach deep learning both for a living (as the main deepsense.io instructor, in a Kaggle-winning team1) and as a part of my volunteering with the Polish Children’s Fund giving workshops to gifted high-school students2. I want to share a few things I’ve learnt about...
 Deep Learning  Past, Present, and Future">Deep Learning  Past, Present, and Future
 ...ting into that. We do, however, want a common high level of understanding to begin with. First, have a look at the fantastic introductory videos from DeepLearning.tv. At the time of this writing there are 14 videos; watch them all if you like, but definitely watch the first 5, covering the basics...
 When not to use deep learning">When not to use deep learning
 odel, even with very few training samples. This back-and-forth comes at a time where more and more researchers in biomedical informatics are adopting deep learning for various problems. Is the hype real or are linear models really all we need? The answer, as always, is that it depends. In this
 ...lab toolbox for Deep Learning (from Rasmus Berg Palm) Deep Belief Networks. Matlab code for learning Deep Belief Networks (from Ruslan Salakhutdinov) deeplearning4j, an Apache 2.0-licensed, open-source, distributed neural net library written in Java and Scala. DeepDist, accelerates the training by... http://www.kdnuggets.com/2015/12/deep-learning-tools.html 
 What To Expect from Deep Learning in 2016 and Beyond
 and we look forward to meeting and learning from many more in 2016! As part of our ongoing speaker QA series, we asked some of the top names in deep learning for their predictions for the field over the next 5 years. What developments can we expect to see in deep learning in the next 5 years?
 Artificial Intelligence, Deep Learning, and Neural Networks, Explained">Artificial Intelligence, Deep Learning, and Neural Networks, Explained
 ...entioned, with different techniques used for each. The primary topics of this article are artificial neural networks and an advanced version known as deep learning. Biological Neural Networks Overview   The human brain is exceptionally complex and quite literally the most powerful computing...
 ..., with support for other languages sure to follow. In addition to DeepMind and TensorFlow, open tools for deep-learning development currently include DeepLearning4J, Keras, Caffe, Theano, Torch, OpenBLAS and Mxnet. In 2017, open-source development options for deep-learning developers will continue...
 Research Leaders on Data Mining, Data Science and Big Data key advances, top trends
 ...15? 2. Which Data Science / Data Mining / Machine Learning trends do you expect to dominate in 2016? The most popular research advances in 2015 were: Deep Learning (particularly in speech and vision), distributed machine learning, and commoditization of analytics. The most popular trends for 2016... http://www.kdnuggets.com/2016/01/research-leaders-data-science-big-data-top-trends.html 
 ...ers from the academic machine learning community. Organized by Yandex, Russia's largest search engine, the conference prominently featured the themes Deep Learning and Intelligent Learning, two concepts that were often taken to be in opposition. Although I attended as a speaker and participant on... http://www.kdnuggets.com/2015/10/deep-learning-vapnik-einstein-devil-yandex-conference.html 
 comments Editor: see also results of this poll: Deep Learning is not Enough Interest in deep learning continues to grow. Google Trends shows a steady increase in the search term "deep learning" over the past few years, with an even more noticeable uptick since late 2014. Showing even more... http://www.kdnuggets.com/2016/01/deep-learning-overhyped.html 
 ...An Overview – Schmidhuber 2014 What a wonderful treasure trove this paper is! Schmidhuber provides all the background you need to gain an overview of deep learning (as of 2014) and how we got there through the preceding decades. Starting from recent DL results, I tried to trace back the origins of...
 ...ven more confusion. However, there are a number of links, so if you speak or can read Chinese, perhaps there is something of value hidden in here. 7. Deeplearning4j ★ 1824, 612 Deeplearning4j is an industrial-strength deep learning framework for Java and Scala. As one of the lone JVM deep... http://www.kdnuggets.com/2016/01/top-10-deep-learning-github.html 
 Machine Learning  Artificial Intelligence: Main Developments in 2016 and Key Trends in 2017">Machine Learning  Artificial Intelligence: Main Developments in 2016 and Key Trends in 2017
 ...ced that they will back MXNet in their new AWS ML platform. Facebook, on the other hand, are basically supporting the development of not one, but two Deep Learning frameworks: Torch and Caffe. On the other hand, Google is also supporting the highly successful Keras, so things are at least even...
 ...uptick in online searches of late. Enjoying a surge in research and industry, due mainly to its incredible successes in a number of different areas, deep learning is the process of applying deep neural network technologies - that is, neural network architectures with multiple hidden layers - to...
 Applying Deep Learning to Real-world Problems">Applying Deep Learning to Real-world Problems
 ...f (deep) neural networks: the availability of huge amounts of training data, powerful computational infrastructure, and advances in academia. Thereby deep learning systems start to outperform not only classical methods, but also human benchmarks in various tasks like image classification or face...
 Most Popular Aug 28-Sep 03 Python overtakes R, becomes the leader in Data Science, Machine Learning platforms, by Gregory Piatetsky Deep Learning is not the AI future, by Fabio Ciucci 277 Data Science Key Terms, Explained 42 Steps to Mastering Data Science Top 10 Machine Learning Use Cases: Part... http://www.kdnuggets.com/news/top-stories.html 
 Interview: Arno Candel, H2O.ai on the Basics of Deep Learning to Get You Started
 ...cs from ETH Zurich. Arno was named 2014 Big Data All-Star by Fortune Magazine. Here is my interview with him: Anmol Rajpurohit: Q1. How do you define Deep Learning? How do you differentiate it from the rest of Machine Learning technologies? Dr. Arno Candel: Deep Learning methods use a composition... http://www.kdnuggets.com/2015/01/interview-arno-candel-0xdata-deep-learning.html 
 Deep Learning in a Nutshell  what it is, how it works, why care?
 ...ver the past year or two, I've heard these buzz words being tossed around a lot, and it's something that has definitely seized my curiosity recently. Deep learning is an area of active research these days, and if you've kept up with the field of computer science, I'm sure you've come across at... http://www.kdnuggets.com/2015/01/deep-learning-explanation-what-how-why.html 
 comments By Clay McLeod, Machine Learning Researcher. Come on people - let’s get our act together on deep learning. I’ve been studying and writing about DL for close to two years now, and it still amazes the misinformation surrounding this relatively complex learning algorithm. This post is not...
 ...throughs having to do with artificial intelligence and deep learning in particular. Google, Facebook, and Baidu announced several breakthroughs using deep learning. Google also defeated Go. Deep learning is one specific class of machine learning algorithms. It has a long history, taking its roots...
 ...lood Sung, Independent Deep Learning Researcher. Source: pythonprogramming.net/neural-networks-machine-learning-tutorial If you are a newcomer to the Deep Learning area, the first question you may have is "Which paper should I start reading from?" Here is a reading roadmap of Deep Learning papers!...
 ...ments came into the spotlight, including Microsoft Tay, Google DeepMind AlphaGo, and Facebook M. These experiments all relied on a technique known as deep learning, which attempts to mimic the layers of neurons in the brain’s neocortex. This idea – to create an artificial neural network by...
 Small Data requires Specialized Deep Learning and Yann LeCun response
 ...The problem is that you can beat them by just collecting more data, and then using supervised learning. This is why in industry, the applications of Deep Learning are currently all supervised. I agree with you that for the search and advertising industry, supervised learning is used because of the... http://www.kdnuggets.com/2015/03/small-data-specialized-deep-learning-yann-lecun.html 
 Nando de Freitas AMA: Bayesian Deep Learning, Justice, and the Future of AI
 ...ut some of the main themes prevalent in the discussion. Beyond specific back and forth on the current state of machine learning, learning theory, and deep learning, the following were prominent throughout the AMA: 1 - Nando seems to be concerned with equality of those influencing the future of... http://www.kdnuggets.com/2016/01/nando-de-freitas-ama.html 
 ...more on theory than the Coursera class but it is still relevant for beginners. Knowledge in machine learning isn’t really a prerequisite to learning deep learning, but it does help. In addition, learning classical machine learning and not only deep learning is important because it provides a...
 Awesome Deep Learning: Most Cited Deep Learning Papers">Awesome Deep Learning: Most Cited Deep Learning Papers
 ...g regardless of their application domain. Rather than providing overwhelming amount of papers, We would like to provide a curated list of the awesome deep learning papers which are considered as must-reads in certain research domains. Background   Before this list, there exist other awesome...
 ...ton) and Facebook (which hired Yann LeCun to head Facebook AI Lab). Here are some useful and free (!) resources for learning and using Deep Learning: DeepLearning.net, dedicated site for Deep Learning DeepLearning.net tutorials Deep Learning Wikipedia page NYU Deep Learning course material by Yann... http://www.kdnuggets.com/2014/05/learn-deep-learning-courses-tutorials-overviews.html 
 KDnuggets News 15:n03, Jan 28: Deep Learning Basics and Flaws; MetaMind; KDnuggets Pass to Strata
 ...bluffs. Top KDnuggets tweets, Jan 19-20 - Jan 21, 2015. 15 #programming languages you need to know in 2015; #Facebook open sources its cutting-edge #DeepLearning tools; Simple Pictures that State-of-the-Art #AI Can't Recognize (yet); R Programming fun: writing a Twitter bot. Top KDnuggets tweets,... http://www.kdnuggets.com/2015/n03.html 
 Why Deep Learning is Radically Different From Machine Learning">Why Deep Learning is Radically Different From Machine Learning
 ...g can help you in your work, please feel to leave your email at: www.intuitionmachine.com or join the discussion in Facebook: www.facebook.com/groups/deeplearningpatterns/ Bio: Carlos Perez is a software developer presently writing a book on "Design Patterns for Deep Learning". This is where he...
 ...it (GPU). Originally used to generate high-resolution computer images at fast speeds, the GPU’s computational efficiency makes it ideal for executing deep learning algorithms. Analysis which used to take weeks can now be completed in a few days. While all modern computers have a GPU, not all GPUs...
 ...t refined in 1998 by Yann LeCun, NYU professor, recently hired to head Facebook AI Research Center. Here are additional resources to learn more about Deep Learning and convolutional neural network My post Where to Learn Deep Learning - Courses, Tutorials, Software KDnuggets Exclusive Interview with... http://www.kdnuggets.com/2014/08/deep-learning-important-resources-learning-understanding.html 
 ...rks selecting weight initialization and learning algorithm parameters.   There are many hyperparameters that one can chose from in the regime of Deep Learning architectures. A recent paper, “Evolving Deep Neural Networks” provides a comprehensive list of global parameters that are typically...
 By Zementis. Embedding smarter decisions deep in the operational IT fabric Deep learning is, without doubt, the hottest topic in machine learning, if not the hottest topic on the planet. This article assumes, you already know what deep learning is and you have decided that you want to use it - as... http://www.kdnuggets.com/2016/10/zementis-deep-learning-meets-deep-deployment.html 
 ...until you are satisfied with the results. This is an extremely time consuming task and could end up taking most of your time. Feature extraction with deep learning Deep Learning is just another name for artificial neural networks (or ANN for short). They have been around for 40+ years, but it...
 Exclusive: Interview with Jeremy Howard on Deep Learning, Kaggle, Data Science, and more
 ...and Chief Scientist and helped grow Kaggle to its dominant position. He left Kaggle in Dec 2013. In 2014 he started Enlitic with the mission of using Deep Learning to improve medical diagnostics and clinical decisions. I first met Jeremy at KDD-2011 (?) conference, where he gave an unforgettable... http://www.kdnuggets.com/2017/01/exclusive-interview-jeremy-howard-deep-learning-kaggle-data-science.html 
 Decision Boundaries for Deep Learning and other Machine Learning classifiers
 meters gave natural and well smoothed boundaries (but classification accuracy was not good). Drawing decision boundaries with {h2o} OK, lets run h2o.deeplearning function to estimate decision boundaries using Deep Learning. Our primary interest here is what kind of set of tuning parameters shows
 An Overview of Python Deep Learning Frameworks">An Overview of Python Deep Learning Frameworks
 ...he course of the past 2.5 years. The library I recommended in July 2014, pylearn2, is no longer actively developed or maintained, but a whole host of deep learning libraries have sprung up to take its place. Each has its own strengths and weaknesses. We’ve used most of the technologies on this list...
 Spark + Deep Learning: Distributed Deep Neural Network Training with SparkNet
 ...alled research areas, and has forced some to question whether it may be the apex of machine learning. While not magic (but, perhaps, from the devil), deep learning is certainly a complex field of study, and has managed to, on occasion, surprise even to the most knowledgeable in the field. Deep... http://www.kdnuggets.com/2015/12/spark-deep-learning-training-with-sparknet.html 
 ...of threads to be used by H20. By default, it uses all threads available in that machine. Training a Deep Learning Model Once the data is loaded, h20.deeplearning() method with appropriate parameters can be used to invoke the deep learning engine. H20 deep learning package has various methods to... http://www.kdnuggets.com/2016/04/deep-learning-iot-h2o.html 
 Will Deep Learning take over Machine Learning, make other algorithms obsolete?
 Deep learning grows rapidly and surprises us with amazing empirical results. There is a discussion on Quora about whether deep learning will make other machine learning algorithms obsolete. Specifically, will related algorithms such as back propagation, HMM become obsolete like perceptrons? Huh,
 TensorFlow is Terrific  A Sober Take on Deep Learning Acceleration">TensorFlow is Terrific  A Sober Take on Deep Learning Acceleration
 ...bold despite the fact that (Torch), which is maintained by Ronan Collobert of Facebook AI Research, already offers categorically similar open-source deep learning tools and that Yoshua Bengio's lab has long maintained Theano, the revolutionary software package which pioneered the category in the... http://www.kdnuggets.com/2015/12/tensor-flow-terrific-deep-learning-library.html 
 ...ook post, book co-author Ian Goodfellow has announced that, after 2.5 years of work, the MIT Press book Deep Learning has been completed. Authored by deep learning heavyweights Goodfellow, Yoshua Bengio, and Aaron Courville, the book is poised to become the deep learning book on the market, once it...
 ...o wager that an open source distributed TensorFlow is a reality by summer. The opening act has created a buzz. I'm ready for the headliner. 2. Use of Deep Learning within Google is growing exponentially Exponential deep learning growth within Google. DistBelief, Google Brain's first generation deep... http://www.kdnuggets.com/2015/12/update-google-tensorflow-deep-learning-is-improving.html 
 Deep Learning Can be Applied to Natural Language Processing">Deep Learning Can be Applied to Natural Language Processing
 ...that attempts to make an argument against the use of Deep Learning in the domain of NLP. The article written by Riza Berkan “Is Google Hyping it? Why Deep Learning cannot be Applied to Natural Languages Easily” has several arguments about DL cannot possibly work and that Google is exaggerating its...
 ...nd Khosla Ventures. As a prominent deep learning researcher and Silicon Valley CEO, Socher sits at the intersection of several recurring themes here (deep learning, machine learning as a service, and the interplay between academia and industry). For half an hour we discussed deep learning and... http://www.kdnuggets.com/2015/10/metamind-mastermind-richard-socher-deep-learning-interview.html 
 ...any programming languages. MXNet has been accepted into the Apache Incubator, which puts it on track to eventually become a top-level Apache project. Deeplearning4J: a commercially-supported deep learning framework with strong performance in a Java environment, making it attractive for enterprise...
 ...eams (ex. Flickr, Image Search) to gain intelligence from massive amounts of online data. Many existing DL frameworks require a separated cluster for deep learning, and multiple programs have to be created for a typical machine learning pipeline (see Figure 1). The separated clusters require large...
 Top arXiv Papers, January: ConvNets Advances, Wide Instead of Deep, Adversarial Networks Win, Learning to Reinforcement Learn
 ...sionality fits. Not exactly groundbreaking, but good review and tutorial material nonetheless. The paper characterizes classes of functions for which deep learning can be exponentially better than shallow learning. Deep convolutional networks are a special case of these conditions, though weight...
 Game Theory Reveals the Future of Deep Learning">Game Theory Reveals the Future of Deep Learning
 ...y stages here of leveraging game thoery, but I will point out some papers that have a game theoretic bent in them. David Balduzzi has a framework for deep learning that takes a game theoretic approach. In his paper “Semantics, Representations and Grammars of Deep Learning” he writes: A potential...
 ...e misclassification. The result is a seemingly identical but misclassified image. This finding raises interesting questions about the applications of deep learning to adversarial situations. The authors also point out that this challenges the smoothness assumption, i.e., that examples very close to...
 By Shakir Mohamed, Google DeepMind. Over the past 6 months, I've taken to writing a series of posts (one each month) on a statistical view of deep learning with two principal motivations in mind. The first was as a personal exercise to make concrete and to test the limits of the way that I think... http://www.kdnuggets.com/2015/11/statistical-view-deep-learning.html 
 Deep Learning, AI Assistant Summits London feature DeepMind and much more, Sep 21-22  KDnuggets Offer
 ...to announce the attendance of the ‘world leader in artificial intelligence research and its application for positive impact’, Google DeepMind. At the Deep Learning Summit, both Irina Higgins and Jörg Bornschein, Research Scientists from DeepMind will be presenting their current work and the most...
 Semi-supervised Feature Transfer: The Practical Benefit of Deep Learning Today?
 ...edge" in the new model is a combination of transferred features plus a few labeled examples. This is semi-supervised feature transfer. Wait, how does deep learning make it work? If, like many readers, you were aware of machine learning methods before the deep learning hype train rolled into the...
 Deep Learning and Neural Networks Primer: Basic Concepts for Beginners
 ...atory posts can get a novice to a place where deeper investigation can be undertaken, after building a base of introductory terminology and concepts. Deep Learning Key Terms, Explained Deep learning is a relatively new term, although it has existed prior to the dramatic uptick in online searches of...
 ..., we sympathize. That's why we have decided to collect in a single location some of the most interesting, innovative, or otherwise view-worthy recent deep learning resources of note. Each of the selected entries in the reading list will include a brief overview, a link to the original resource, and... http://www.kdnuggets.com/2016/01/deep-learning-reading-list-january.html 
 Speaker Introduction for the Deep Learning Summit  Deep Learning in Healthcare Summit in Boston, 25-26 May (KDnuggets Offer)
 ...a few of the industry leaders who will be presenting their latest work: Charlie Tang is a Research Scientist at Apple, his research interests include deep learning, neuroscience and robotics and his presentation will focus on the advancements and applications of Deep Reinforcement Learning. Sangram...
 ...ivation is to study multi-agent systems to better understand and control these kinds of systems. In a previous story (see: “Five Capability Levels of Deep Learning”, I laid out a road map as to how Deep Learning will evolve in even greater capabilities. For discussion sake, I re-summarize it here...
 Scikit Flow: Easy Deep Learning with TensorFlow and Scikit-learn">Scikit Flow: Easy Deep Learning with TensorFlow and Scikit-learn
 ...y available since November, 2015, and there is no disputing that, in a few short months, it has made an impact on machine learning in general, and on deep learning specifically. There is evidence of widespread acceptance via blog posts, academic papers, and tutorials all over the web. It is, of...
 ...ractitioners in the field, it is not too obvious. I wrote earlier about the push back that many are making against the developments of Deep Learning. Deep Learning is however an extremely radical departure from classical methods. One researcher who recognized that our classical approaches to...
 Deep Learning, Pachinko, and James Watt: Efficiency is the Driver of Uncertainty
 ...eparate condenser moment. What we require is a revolution in data efficiency equivalent to Watt’s separate condenser moment. Function Composition and Deep Learning   Architecture of DeepFace, Facebook’s recognition system from their paper. See footnote for link. 4 In mathematics we can...
 others. His current interests are centered around a quest for artificial intelligence, through machine learning, and include fundamental questions on deep learning and representation learning, the geometry of generalization in high-dimensional spaces, manifold learning, biologically inspired
 3 practical thoughts on why deep learning performs so well
 e [1], and for sure I won’t be the last. But I would like to extend the discussion by taking into account the practical reasons behind the success of deep learning. Hence if you are looking for its theoretical background you would do better to look for it in the deep learning literature, where the
 Deep Learning Reading Group: Deep Residual Learning for Image Recognition
 ...u would expect more layers to make the network worse after some point. But the authors anticipate this line of reasoning and state that several other deep learning methods, like batch normalization (see our postfor a summary), essentially have solved these training issues, and yet the networks...
 Join Deep Learning leaders in Boston, May 25-26  KDnuggets Offer
 Deep learning experts share their thoughts on recent advancements Deep Learning has been called the ‘new electricity’ and is transforming every industry from manufacturing and agriculture to retail and finance. Advancements in natural language processing, reinforcement learning, image retreival... http://www.kdnuggets.com/2017/04/rework-deep-learning-leaders-boston-may.html 
 The ICLR Experiment: Deep Learning Pioneers Take on Scientific Publishing
 ...of double-blind reviews. In a previous article, I explored the incredible benefits and also the dangers of arXiv.org and the 24-7 research cycle. The deep learning community has relied especially heavily on arXiv.org, as some papers have spurred entire subfields of research before even reaching... http://www.kdnuggets.com/2016/02/iclr-deep-learning-scientific-publishing-experiment.html 
 ...machine learning, computer vision and cognitive science. More specifically, he has developed various higher-order extensions to generative models in deep learning for vision. At the Deep Learning Summit in Boston next month, Charlie will present 'Deep Learning with Structure'. Supervised neural...
 ...perfect. The reason is that such systems are traditionally built using manually defined rules, features, and algorithms tailored for specific tasks. Deep Learning, on the other hand, promises to replace handcrafted features with efficient algorithms able to “learn” the features automatically from... http://www.kdnuggets.com/2016/01/deep-feelings-deep-learning.html 
 ...hear more about how they're using deep learning to revolutionize their work. What do you feel are the leading factors enabling recent advancements in deep learning? There are several – from the availability of inexpensive hardware to the proliferation of data, and as a consequence of all that data,...
 olumns. Hinton also commented on Szegedy et al.s paper where the continuity and stability of deep neural networks were questioned (See my post Does Deep Learning Have Deep Flaws?). However, Hinton said his capsule theory may not be fooled as easily. Work at Google Dr. Hinton joined Google last
 KDnuggets Top Blogger: An Interview with Adit Deshpande, Deep Learning Aficionado
 ...raduate student. Not to be presumptuous or put pressure on you, but do you have plans to pursue graduate studies? If so, would that be in the area of deep learning? At this point in time, I actually feel more of an inclination to work in industry after graduation just because of the number of...
 What is the Difference Between Deep Learning and Regular Machine Learning?">What is the Difference Between Deep Learning and Regular Machine Learning?
 ...e terribly off in the beginning (random initialization) it can become almost impossible to parameterize a "deep" neural network with backpropagation. Deep Learning Now, this is where "deep learning" comes into play. Roughly speaking, we can think of deep learning as "clever" tricks or algorithms...
 ...based on iteration and incremental improvement, and so multiple attempts may be required to achieve the "optimal" result, which is logical given its deep learning foundation. @fairhaven999 gets Picasso'd, one of Deep Forger's favorites. Aside from the straightforward use case, there are also a... http://www.kdnuggets.com/2015/12/deep-learning-art-forgery.html 
 ...d. This is what I mean by unstable. To address this, I have been working on this, with some collaborators at UC Berkeley, on a general theory for Why Deep Learning Works CC mmds talk 2106 (video coming soon) Why does Deep Learning work? The new idea is that, when a Deep Network is being trained, if...
 World experts will meet for first Deep Learning Summit in San Francisco, Jan 29-30
 Deep Learning Summit #DeepL15 San Francisco Jan 29-30, 2015. The Deep Learning Summit is a unique opportunity to meet influential data scientists, technologists, world-leading researchers, entrepreneurs and data engineers all in the same room. Discover how advanced deep learning will impact your... http://www.kdnuggets.com/2015/01/rework-deep-learning-summit-san-francisco.html 
 Top Stories, Apr 17-23: Awesome Deep Learning: Most Cited Deep Learning Papers; The Value of Exploratory Data Analysis
 ...o Forrester vs Gartner on Data Science Platforms and Machine Learning Solutions, by Gregory Piatetsky New Online Data Science Tracks for 2017 Awesome Deep Learning: Most Cited Deep Learning Papers The 10 Algorithms Machine Learning Engineers Need to Know Data Science for the Layman (No Math Added)... http://www.kdnuggets.com/2017/04/top-news-week-0417-0423.html 
 Around the World in 60 Days: Getting Deep Speech to Work in Mandarin
 ...ime. 3.3. More data and bigger networks outperform feature engineering, but they also make it easier to change domains It is a well-worn adage in the deep learning community at this point that a lot of data and a machine learning technique that can exploit that data tends to work better than almost...
 ...of the average American 11th grade student. Intuitive Concept Understanding A more general method of multimodal concept grounding has come about from deep learning in the past few years: Subsymbolic knowledge and reasoning are implicitly understood by a system rather than being explicitly... http://www.kdnuggets.com/2016/02/top-artifical-intelligence-breakthroughs-2015.html 
 ...is section is in flux and in undergoing a lot of changes. Therefore, this article is just a reflection of my current understanding of the language of Deep Learning Meta Meta-Model. That’s definitely a mouth full, so to make life simpler for everyone, I just call this the Deep Learning Canonical...
 ...d $500+ million, and the movement of some academic experts to high-profile tech giants, there has been a lot of buzz surrounding the potential impact deep learning will have in the field of analytics. At FICO, we’re excited about this emerging machine learning technology and want to share how we... http://www.kdnuggets.com/2014/03/how-deep-learning-analytics-mimic-mind.html 
 Top stories in January: (Deep Learning Deep Flaws) Deep Flaws; Research Leaders on key trends, papers
 ...Data key trends, top papers - Jan 9, 2015. 11 Clever Methods of Overfitting and how to avoid them - Jan 2, 2015. Free Public Datasets - Feb 3, 2011. Deep Learning in a Nutshell - what it is, how it works, why care? - Jan 12, 2015. Text Analysis 101: Document Classification - Jan 24, 2015. Is Data... http://www.kdnuggets.com/2015/02/top-news-2015-jan.html 
 ...as 2 separate posts; as such, the second half of the post reflects reactions to the content of the first half. Part 1 Everyday a half dozen or so new deep learning papers come out on ArXiv, but very few catch my eye. Recently, I read about “Deep Networks with Stochastic Depth“. I think, like...
 Deep Learning Summit  Deep Learning in Healthcare Summit in Boston, 25-26 May (KDnuggets Offer)
 ...ientist at Disney Research View the event schedule. Healthcare is one of the most promising areas for the application of artificial intelligence. The Deep Learning in Healthcare Summit will showcase how the latest technological advancements are revolutionising healthcare and medicine. We will...
 Deep Learning Research Review: Natural Language Processing">Deep Learning Research Review: Natural Language Processing
 ...es in the English language, it would take a very skilled linguist to understand all the possible combinations and meanings. How Deep Learning Fits In Deep learning, at its most basic level, is all about representation learning. With CNNs, we see the composition of different filters that are used to...
 First Deep Learning for coders MOOC launched by Jeremy Howard
 Jeremy P. Howard, @JeremyPHoward, is a leading Machine Learning and Deep learning researcher and entrepreneur. His current startup is fast.ai and he is also on faculty at USF and Singularity University. Previously, he was CEO and founder of Enlitic, Kaggle President, and #1 ranked Kaggle... http://www.kdnuggets.com/2016/12/deep-learning-coders-mooc-jeremy-howard.html 
 ...from Scratch”. They posit that deep learning could make it possible to understand text, without having any knowledge about the language. The brief – Deep learning for text classification The paper shows how to use deep learning to perform text classification, for instance to determine if a review... http://www.kdnuggets.com/2015/03/deep-learning-text-understanding-from-scratch.html 
 ...n, Machine Learning, and Computer Graphics. To no surprise, this year's ICCV is filled with lots of ConvNets, but this time the applications of these Deep Learning tools are being applied to much much more creative tasks. Let's take a look at the following twenty one ICCV 2015 research papers,... http://www.kdnuggets.com/2016/01/iccv-2015-21-hottest-papers.html 
 ...y Atari games and defeating a European Go champion), and many other areas (watch Oriol Vinyals of Google excellent presentation on recent advances of Deep Learning. Fig 1. Image, automatically annotated by Deep Learning.   Deep Learning is probably the hottest technology now, and Google Trends... http://www.kdnuggets.com/2016/02/deep-learning-not-enough.html 
 ...is not an exhaustive list of available deep learning toolkits, more of which can be found here. In the coming months, our team is excited to checkout DeepLearning4j, Paddle, Chainer, Apache Signa, and Dynet. We explain our scoring of the reviewed tools below: Languages: When getting started with...
 ...to the subfield for its perceived importance, its ability to tackle interesting challenges, and its promise of valuable results. The current wave of deep learning research marks a major event in the history of machine learning and artificial intelligence. Machine learning powerhouse Google... http://www.kdnuggets.com/2016/01/google-deep-learning-tensorflow-course.html 
 ...search leader Yann LeCun took part in a Quora Session, during which he answered questions from community members on a wide variety of (mostly machine/deep learning) topics. But... what does Yann LeCun think he does? During the session, this question was posed: When will we see a theoretical...
 DeepLearningKit  Open Source Deep Learning Framework for Apple iOS, OS X
 By Amund Tveit. Happy to announce that a(early) version of DeepLearningKit is available on: deeplearningkit.org github.com/deeplearningkit/ deeplearningkit.org/tutorials-for-ios-os-x-and-tvos/tutorial-using-deeplearningkit-with-ios-for-iphone-and-ipad FAQ 0. What does DeepLearningKit do? It
 ...ation details, i.e., tricks or tips, for building and training your own deep networks. Introduction We assume you already know the basic knowledge of deep learning, and here we will present the implementation details (tricks or tips) in Deep Neural Networks, especially CNN for image-related tasks,...
 Top stories for Jan 25-31: (Deep Learning Deep Flaws) Deep Flaws; Text Analysis 101: Document Classification
 ...h - Jan 29, 2015. Interview: John Schitka, SAP on The Type of Data Scientists We Need - Jan 24, 2015. Interview: Arno Candel, H2O.ai on the Basics of Deep Learning to Get You Started - Jan 20, 2015. Free Public Datasets - Feb 3, 2011. Top SlideShare Presentations on Big Data, updated - Jan 18,... http://www.kdnuggets.com/2015/02/top-news-week-jan-25.html 
 Deep Residual Networks for Image Classification with Python + NumPy
 ...Learning for Image Recognition” from scratch with Python for my master’s thesis in computer engineering, I ended up implementing a simple (CPU-only) deep learning framework along with the residual model, and trained it on CIFAR-10, MNIST and SFDDD. Results speak by themselves. Convolutional Neural...
 ...brain? Scary, isn’t it? Ran Bi is a master student in Data Science program at New York University. She has done several projects in machine learning, deep learning and also big data analytics during her study at NYU. With the background in Financial Engineering for undergrad study, she is also...
 ...ytics. An open, collaborative environment, Lab41 fosters valuable relationships between participants. Original. Reposted with permission. Related: In Deep Learning, Architecture Engineering is the New Feature Engineering Up to Speed on Deep Learning: July Update Why Do Deep Learning Networks Scale?...
 ...dom number generator? In this view, creativity reduces to entropy maximization. Interestingly, this seems opposite to views on creativity espoused by deep learning pioneer Juergen Schmidhuber, who suggests that low entropy, in the form of short description length is a defining characteristic of... http://www.kdnuggets.com/2016/05/deep-neural-networks-creative-deep-learning-art.html 
 Detecting Facial Features Using Deep Learning Top Stories, Aug 28-Sep 3: Python Overtakes R... Cartoon: Machine Learning Class Adobe: Sr. Data Science Engineer Upcoming Meetings in AI, Analytics, Big Data,... Global AI Conference, New York City, October ...
 Global AI Conference, New York City, October 23-24 WCAI Analytics Accelerator Challenge Search Millions of Documents for Thousands of Keywords in a Flash 277 Data Science Key Terms, Explained What we learned labeling 1 million images Top 10 Machine Learning Use Cases: Part 1 Connecting the dots for a Deep Learning App Next Generation Data Manipulation with R and dplyr Learning Machine Learning with Flashcards Top tweets, Aug 23-29: Python overtakes R, becomes the lead... KDD Cup 2018 Call for Proposals Are physicians worried about computers machine learning their ... Using GRAKN.AI to Detect Patterns in Credit Fraud Data KDnuggets 17:n33, Aug 30: Python Overtakes R in Machine Lea... Full Stack Data Science at ODSC Data Scientists: What They Do and How to Become One KDnuggets part-time, paid internship in Data Science/Machine L... PyTorch or TensorFlow? Vital Statistics You Never Learned Because Theyr... How to Become a Data Scientist: The Definitive Guide
