My goal is to help you get started, make progress and kick butt with machine learning.
I teach a top-down and results-first approach designed for developers and engineers.
Access my best free tutorials on the blog or take the next step with my paid training material.
You may be feeling overwhelmed. You may have a lot of questions.
Take your time. Bookmark this page. Find the answers to your questions.
What do you need help with? Here are some quick links:
The benefit of machine learning are the predictions and the models that make predictions.
To have skill at applied machine learning means knowing how to consistently and reliably deliver high-quality predictions on problem after problem. You need to follow a systematic process.
Below is a 5-step process that you can follow to consistently achieve above average results on predictive modeling problems:
Why you should be Spot-Checking Algorithms on your Machine Learning Problems
How To Choose The Right Test Options When Evaluating Machine Learning Algorithms
You need to know what algorithms are available for a given problem, how they work, and how to get the most out of them.
Machine learning algorithms make up a big part of applied machine learning.
There is a lot of benefit in studying machine learning algorithms and learning how to get the most out of them.
Below is a simple 5-step process that you can use to study and learn any machine learning algorithm.
Weka is a platform that you can use to get started in applied machine learning.
It has a graphical user interface meaning that no programming is required and it offers a suite of state of the art algorithms.
How to Normalize and Standardize Your Machine Learning Data in Weka
How To Handle Missing Values In Machine Learning Data With Weka
How to Perform Feature Selection With Machine Learning Data in Weka
How To Estimate The Performance of Machine Learning Algorithms in Weka
Python is one of the fastest growing platforms for applied machine learning.
You can use the same tools like pandas and scikit-learn in the development and operational deployment of your model.
Below are the steps that you can use to get started with Python machine learning:
Step 3: Discover how to work through problems using machine learning in Python.
How To Prepare Your Data For Machine Learning in Python with Scikit-Learn
R is a platform for statistical computing and is the most popular platform among professional data scientists.
Its popular because of the large number of techniques available, and because of excellent interfaces to these methods such as the powerful caret package.
Step 1: Discover the R platform and why it is so popular.
Step 3: Discover how to work through problems using machine learning in R.
State-of-the-art results are coming from the field of deep learning and it is a sub-field of machine learning that cannot be ignored.
Handwritten Digit Recognition using Convolutional Neural Networks in Python with Keras
Object Recognition with Convolutional Neural Networks in the Keras Deep Learning Library
Time Series Prediction with LSTM Recurrent Neural Networks in Python with Keras
Text Generation With LSTM Recurrent Neural Networks in Python with Keras
Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) Recurrent Neural Networks are designed for sequence prediction problems and are a state-of-the-art deep learning technique for challenging prediction problems.
A Gentle Introduction to Long Short-Term Memory Networks by the Experts
The 5 Step Life-Cycle for Long Short-Term Memory Models in Keras
How to Use the TimeDistributed Layer for Long Short-Term Memory Networks
How to use an Encoder-Decoder LSTM to Echo Sequences of Random Integers
It is popular because it is being used by some of the best data scientists in the world to win machine learning competitions.
A Gentle Introduction to the Gradient Boosting Algorithm for Machine Learning
Step 3: Discover how to get good at delivering results with XGBoost.
How to Develop Your First XGBoost Model in Python with scikit-learn
How to Tune the Number and Size of Decision Trees with XGBoost in Python
Many datasets contain a time component, but the topic of time series is rarely covered in much depth from a machine learning perspective.
Step 3: Discover how to get good at delivering results with Time Series Forecasting.
How to Make Baseline Predictions for Time Series Forecasting with Python
How to Check if Time Series Data is Stationary with Python
How to Create an ARIMA Model for Time Series Forecasting with Python
I strongly believe that the best thing to focus on is how to work through machine learning problems end-to-end (learn more).
That being said, I think if youre not a strong programmer, that Weka is the best place to start because you can work through problems without writing a line of code (learn more).
I think Python is excellent for developing models that can run in production, it is a growing platform (learn more).
I think R might be the most powerful platform, but it requires learning a new programming language. I think the sweet spot for R is one-off projects and R&D projects (learn more).
If pressed to answer, I would recommend that you start with Python (learn more).
This means that you very quickly learn how to work through predictive modeling problems and deliver results.
As part of this process, I teach a method of developing a portfolio of completed projects. This demonstrates your skill and gives you a platform from which to take on ever more challenging projects.
It is this ability to deliver results and the projects that demonstrate that you can deliver results is what will get you a position.
Business only use credentials as a shortcut, they want results more than anything else.
I would love to help, but I just dont have the capacity.
I do offer a structured and top-down approach to machine learning self-study. You can learn more about it here:
I am happy to continue to answer any machine learning questions you might have by email (one question at a time please).
Recently I have been focusing more attention on Python-based tools and libraries.
Recently, it seems that Python may be emerging as a dominant platform. Skills in Python for machine learning are in great demand. I am just serving this need.
Please ask your question in the comments of the blog post.
Until then, contact me and let me know about the topic you want me to cover.
My mission is to help you get started and get good at applied machine learning using a learn by doing philosophy. I teach using a top-down and results-first approach.
If you want the bottom-up theory-first approach to machine learning, I would recommend a textbook or a multi-year graduate program. It is a path to theoretical machine learning and academia.
That being said, it is generally recognized that eventually, you will need to know your away around the intersection of these fields:
Dont make the beginners mistake of thinking you need to start here. Read this:
I have a bunch of degrees in computer science and artificial intelligence and I have worked many years in the tech industry in teams where your code has to work and be maintainable.
Academia was a bad fit for me, but I loved to research and to write. I think of myself as a good engineer that really wants to help other people get started and get good at machine learning, without wasting years of their life getting ready to get started.
More about my belief and my mission to help you be awesome at machine learning.
My best advice is to work on problems or with technology that most interests you.
Practice Machine Learning with Datasets from the UCI Machine Learning Repository
Consider working on some more advanced datasets from competitive machine learning:
I think the best person to talk to about research topics is your research advisor.
Yes, but understand that it was developed and provided for educational purposes.
I take no responsibility for the code, what it might do or how you might use it.
It takes too much time and mental space away from writing new tutorials and books, which is the most effective way I can help the most people.
Sorry, I want to stay away from the whole recruiting thing.
From what I have experienced, the great people are always fully engaged. Your job is to find them and offer them something more interesting.
Sorry, I dont have the capacity to get involved in your project at the level you need or at a level to do a good job.
I am happy to answer any specific questions you have about machine learning.
Can you read, review, collaborate or help with my research paper?
I no longer consider myself an academic. I cannot give you expert academic advice.
I am happy to answer any specific questions you have about machine learning.
My focus is industrial machine learning, I no longer have an opinion on schools and courses.
Remember, you do not need a higher degree to do very well in applied machine learning.
Im eager to help, but I just dont have the capacity to debug code for you.
Consider aggressively cutting the code back to the minimum required. This will help you isolate the problem and focus on it.
Consider cutting the problem back to just one or a few simple examples.
Consider finding other similar code examples that do work and slowly modify them to meet your needs. This might expose your misstep.
Im eager to help, but I just dont have the capacity.
My material is generally intended for those that know their way around their own workstation and know how to install software.
How to Setup a Python Environment for Machine Learning and Deep Learning with Anaconda
How to Install a Python 3 Environment on Mac OS X for Machine Learning and Deep Learning
How to Create a Linux Virtual Machine For Machine Learning Development With Python 3
Im here to help you become awesome at applied machine learning.
If you still have questions and need help, you have some options:
Ebooks: I sell a catalog of Ebooks that show you how to get results with machine learning, fast.
Blog: I write a lot about applied machine learning on the blog, try the search feature.
Contact: You can contact me with your question, but one question at a time please.
