 In this online course, you will learn about the rapidly evolving field of Deep Learning. The surge in deployed applications based on concepts and methods in this field is an indication of its potential to help fully realize the promise of Artificial Intelligence. At the end of this course you will understand the basic concepts underlying the representations and methods in deep learning and see some applications where deep learning is most effective. You will also gain an appreciation of what kind of problems are most suited for this field and current research trends.
 This course may be taken individually (one-off) or as part of a certificate program.
Homework in this course consists of short answer questions to test concepts, practice with using public-domain tools and some guided exercises that involve freely available data. There is also an end-of-course project.
From Deep Learning by Ian Goodfellow and Yoshua Bengio and Aaron Courville
 Who Should Take This Course:Data scientists, statisticians, software engineers, technical managers interested in learning about what is deep learning, the state-of-the-art techniques/concepts and the range of applications in which they can be used.
 Prerequisite:You should have some familiarity with linear algebra, probability and information theory. The course text's chapters 2 and 3 can be read in advance to gain this background. You should also be able to run open-source tools and install them on your personal computer. You shoudl be sufficiently familiar with Python to write programs to read/generate data and process it in appropriate data structures using relevant packages.
 Organization of the Course:This course takes place online at the Institute for 4 weeks. During each course week, you participate at times of your own choosing - there are no set times when you must be online. Course participants will be given access to a private discussion board. In class discussions led by the instructor, you can post questions, seek clarification, and interact with your fellow students and the instructor.At the beginning of each week, you receive the relevant material, in addition to answers to exercises from the previous session. During the week, you are expected to go over the course materials, work through exercises, and submit answers. Discussion among participants is encouraged. The instructor will provide answers and comments, and at the end of the week, you will receive individual feedback on your homework answers.Time Requirement:About 15 hours per week, at times of  your choosing. Options for Credit and Recognition:Students come to the Institute for a variety of reasons. As you begin the course, you will be asked to specify your category:
No credit - You may be interested only in learning the material presented, and not be concerned with grades or a record of completion.
Certificate - You may be enrolled in PASS (Programs in Analytics and Statistical Studies) that requires demonstration of proficiency in the subject, in which case your work will be assessed for a grade.
CEUs and/or proof of completion - You may require a "Record of Course Completion," along with professional development credit in the form of Continuing Education Units (CEU's).  For those successfully completing the course,  CEU's and a record of course completion will be issued by The Institute, upon request.
Other options - Statistics.com Specializations, INFORMS CAP recognition, and academic (college) credit are available for some Statistics.com courses
Specialization:Specializations are an easy way for you to demonstrate mastery of a specific skill in statistics and analytics. This course is part of the Intelligence and Security Analytics Specialization which teaches statistical and machine learning methods for detecting anomalies, identifying images, and processing data from sensors. Take all three Statistics.com courses on this topic (this course, plus the courses listed to the right under "related courses," not including conferences). For savings, use the promo code "anomaly-specialization" and register for all three courses at once for $1197 ($399 per course, not combinable with other tuition savings).
 Course Text:The required text is Deep Learning (MIT Press, 2016) by I. Goodfellow, Y. Bengio and A. Courville.
It will be supplemented in the course by other technical papers, also available online.
 Software:The assignments will use Theano. Instructions for installing Theano can be found here:
http://deeplearning.net/software/theano/install.html You will need to choose between Python 2 (>= 2.6) and pip or Python 3 (>= 3.3) and pip3. It is possible to install both and switch between them for different purposes. One advantage of Python 3 is that it uses Unicode natively, which is very convenient if, for example, you want to process Chinese text.
If you are using a computer with a CUDA-enabled graphics card, try to install CUDA and integrate it into Theano. Otherwise, the assignments can be completed in CPU mode (but some of the models will be run on a smaller scale).
Some of the assignments will build on the software found at
In order to do this, you will need to have git installed on your computer. If you don't have it, the install process is very simple with git being freely available for almost any operating system available today.
 Do you meet course prerequisites? What about book & software? (Click here to learn more)
We have flexible policies to transfer to another course, or withdraw if necessary (modest fee applies)
If you are new to Statistics.com, welcome! To get you going, take 10% off the standard tuition rate on your first course. Just use the following promo code at the end of the registration process.Code: newstudent7es1 (code expires September 30, 2017)Not quite ready to register? We will send you a longer lasting code; just fill out your contact info below:
 Add $50 service fee if you require a prior invoice, or if you need to submit a purchase order or voucher, pay by wire transfer or EFT, or refund and reprocess a prior payment. Please use this printed registration form, for these and other special orders.
Courses may fill up at any time and registrations are processed in the order in which they are received. Your registration will be confirmed for the first available course date, unless you specify otherwise.
The Institute for Statistics Education is certified to operate by the State Council of Higher Education in Virginia (SCHEV).
 Melissa BrewerSage ProductsAll of the courses I have taken through Statistics.com have been excellent in providing understanding of statistical concepts by focusing on the logic and theory behind the equations and formulas, which has allowed me to maximize my learning experienceVinuth TulasiJuniper NetworksEvery professor has unique and great qualities in them and the unique and great quality that I found in Prof Anthony Babinec is that he can write pages of explanation for each and every line in the book... He is an awesome professor. He explained each and every doubts we had to the perfection.Karolis UrbonasAmazonThe Statistics.com courses have helped me a lot, pushing me to the limit and making me learn much more than I expected I could. The knowledge I gained I could immediately leverage in my job ... then eventually led to landing a job in my dream company - Amazon.Raul BauzaInternational Banking at ScotiabankI am working for Scotiabank/International Banking-Marketing (Toronto-Canada). Since we are manipulating tons of data at the customer level for more than 27 countries, R would be the perfect complement tool (we have been using SAS) for customer analytics. I am new on this R world but I would like to apply it on a daily basis soon.Vinuth TulasiJuniper NetworksThis course is really a ""dream come true"" for me. In the real sense- This course is at par to what the researchers are working on.Karen TowleThe professor and assistant instructor were incredibly responsive and helpful.  This was my second Statistics.com class - your faculty are an incredible asset, making these classes the best learning experience I've had online.  (And thank you, thank you, thank you for not *requiring* discussion board participation.  It makes the discussion much more organic, relevant, useful, and enjoyable.Karen TowleYour faculty are an incredible asset, making these classes the best learning experience I've had online.Katherine MichaelSound Healthcare Solutions LLCOverall, the instructor and the assistant instructors were responsive and helpful. The homework grading was done in a timely way and the model answers were helpful.  All in all, I learned a lot and am eager to practically apply these strategies.Jennifer OeschThere are many things I like about your educational product.  You include variety, such as the videos, the homework, the quizzes, the textbook, and the discussion board.  You have well-thought out curriculum that shows a respect for good pedagogy.  Your instructors are amazing!  They are brilliant, and they respond very quickly!  You apply real-world needs to the material being taught instead of having students memorize formulas or be confined within an academic-only practice of modeling.Milan HejtmanekSeoul National UniversityThe two instructors are to be congratulated in putting together a jewel of a short course, one of my very favorite among the many I have taken at Statistics.com.  The discussion with such experts was particularly valuable and greatly enhanced the value of the course.  If there were an extension to this course, I would gladly take it.Jonathan JenkinsGreat explanations provided by the course instructor in the videos and on the discussion board.  The Assistant Teacher was very diligent and professional in reaching out to me and giving me every opportunity to be successful in this course!  Definitely a wonderful experience!!!Laila ShaarI would like to thank you for offering such a chance for people to extend their knowledge in the fields of statistics, and consequently provide them the adequate tools for better performance and sound achievements in their jobs and research.Karen BehrendOver the last two summers, I've taken the two stats courses meant to prepare future AP Stats teachers. Those courses were invaluable to me and gave me the confidence I needed to tackle a difficult subject.Herbert TurnerAnalytica, Inc.I think the resampling approaches are refreshing and insightful. And the textbooks are marvelous in their clarity of expression and real world examples. I have told many of my colleagues about this wonderful and refreshing online medium for learning about statistics.Herbert TurnerAnalytica, Inc.Taking as many courses through Statistics.com is one of my lifelong learning goals; I have told many of my colleagues about this wonderful and refreshing online medium for learning about statistics.LaVera CrawleyStanford UniversityI just completed another of your courses and yours is without question the best online educational resource available.Herman ChavarriaKinetic Concepts Inc.This is my fourth course that I have taken at statistics.com and I am very satisfied with the level and quality of instruction. I will continue to look for ...courses that I can take whenever possible.Floyd DemmonArcelorMittal USAOverall, this was the kind of strong, structured introductory exposure to a topic I've come to expect at statistics.com.Sheryl HorowitzHartford HospitalI have been telling people about the course. I think you are doing a great job!Brett Berg AMPS Project InternationalI look forward to taking another course on statistics.com - a great way to continue learning in a structured manner, but flexible enough to participate while Life continues.David PlumsteadMy statistical knowledge and base continues to increase significantlynow with each additional Statistics.com course taken. While I may not be usingall the learnings directly in my day-to-day work (for example, regressionmodeling or calculating sample sizes), they are all influencing how I thinkabout, approach, and work with data every day; the way in which I describe andpresent data and findings to others; and the way in which I interpret otherstudies and reports from other researchers, analysts, and statisticians, etcBenjamin EsterniCytelAll was perfect Thanks!Paula Pelletier-ButlerExcellent team. Once again, I'm impressed with the level of interaction that is made almost daily from the instructors and support team. Thank you for all your help.
