 Peng Cui is an Assistant Professor in Tsinghua University. He got his PhD degree from Tsinghua University in 2010. His research interests include network representation learning, social dynamics modeling and human behavioral modeling. He has published more than 60 papers in prestigious conferences and journals in data mining and multimedia. His recent research won the ICDM 2015 Best Student Paper Award, SIGKDD 2014 Best Paper Finalist, IEEE ICME 2014 Best Paper Award, ACM MM12 Grand Challenge Multimodal Award, and MMM13 Best Paper Award. He is the Area Chair of ICDM 2016, ACM MM 2014-2015, IEEE ICME 2014-2015, ICASSP 2013, Associate Editor of ACM TOMM, Elsevier Journal on Neurocomputing. He was the recipient of ACM China Rising Star Award in 2015.
 Xiaolin Hu received the Ph.D. degree in automation and computer-aided engineering from The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, in 2007. He is currently an Associate Professor with the Department of Computer Science and Technology, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China. He is working in the interface between artificial intelligence and neuroscience. He has published over 50 papers in international journals and conferences including IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems, IEEE Transactions on Image Processing, IEEE Transactions on Cybernetics, PLoS ONE, Neural Computation, European Journal of Neuroscience, Journal of Neurophysiology, Frontiers in Human Neuroscience, CVPR, NIPS. He is an Associate Editor of the IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems.
 Dr. Minlie Huang now is an associate professor of Dept. of Computer Science and Technology, Tsinghua University. He received his PhD degree in 2006. He was awarded “Tsinghua Excellent Researcher Fellowship” in 2006 and was selected by “Beijing Century Young Elite Program” in 2013. His research interests include artificial intelligence, deep learning, natural language processing, sentiment understanding, and dialogue systems.
He has published 40+ papers on premier conferences such as ACL, AAAI, IJCAI, EMNLP, COLING, KDD, ICDM, CIKM, and highly-impacted journals like Bioinformatics, Genome Biology, JAMIA etc.  He served as area chairs for ACL 2016, EMNLP 2014, EMNLP 2011, and reviewers for ACL, IJCAI, AAAI, EACL, COLING, EMNLP, NAACL, CIKM, ICDM, SDM, and reviewers for TOIS, TKDE, TALIP, etc. As principle investigator, he had established many collaborations with industrial companies such as Samsung, Microsoft, HP, Fujitsu, Google, ExxonMobil, and Tencent.
 Dr. Jia Jia is an associate professor in Department of Computer Science and Technology, Tsinghua University. Her main research interest is social affective computing and human computer speech interaction. She is serving as the secretary-general of Professional Committee of Speech in Chinese Information Processing Society, and also the committee member of Multimedia Federation in China Society of Image and Graphic, the committee member of Multimedia Federation in CCF, and the member of the International Speech Communication Association (ISCA). She has been awarded ACM Multimedia Grand Challenge Prize and Scientific Progress Prizes from the National Ministry of Education . She has authored about 70 papers in leading conferences and journals including IEEE Transaction on Audio, Speech and Language Processing, IEEE Transaction on Multimedia, IEEE Transaction on Affective Computing, ACM Multimedia, AAAI, IJCAI, ICASSP, Interspeech,etc. She also has wide research collaborations with Siemens, MSRA, Huawei, Bosch, Sohu and Tencent, etc.
 Zhiyuan Liu is an assistant professor at the Department of Computer Science and Technology in Tsinghua University. He received his PhD degree in Computer Science from Tsinghua in 2011. His research interests include representation learning, knowledge graphs and social computation., and has published more than 30 papers in top-tier conferences and journals of AI and NLP, cited by more than one thousand times according to Google Scholar. He is a recipient of the Best PhD Thesis of Tsinghua University, the Best PhD Thesis of CAAI (Chinese Association for Artificial Intelligence), and Outstanding Post-Doctoral Fellow in Tsinghua University. He serves as Youth Associate Editor of Frontiers of Computer Science, PC members of ACL, IJCAI, AAAI, etc.
 Huaping Liu is an associate professor in Department of Computer Science and Technology, Tsinghua University. He serves as Associate Editor of some journals including IEEE Robotics & Automation Letters, Neurocomputing, Cognitive Computation, and some conferences including ICRA and IROS. His research interests include robot perception and learning
 In October 2014, Tsinghua University was ranked seventh in the world in the Computer Science
 Tsinghua University has ranked in the top 10 worldwide for graduate employability.
