VIUs video streaming service (VIUTube) is moving to a shared service hosted at UBC. This means UBC is hosting the streaming media software Kaltura for the whole province on its servers. Many other colleges and universities are already using this service and enjoyed improved access, supports and services. This allows us to offer some exciting new tools while still supporting all the ways you already use VIUTube.
As of April 21, 2017, users of VIUTube will be redirected to upload content to the new VIUTube (viuvideos.viu.ca) at UBC. We have already copied all of your existing content to the new site so you will see all of your videos, audio files, and photos under My Media when you log in. There is no work for you to do in terms of moving your files  weve done it for you!
You will still be able to access all of your media files under My Media. If you have shared videos with others using links or embed codes, you will need to replace those links with the new links for your videos. This is because your media has a new address (at UBC) and anyone or any place you have the old address  it will need to change by May 31.
You will also notice that the upload date for all of your videos has changed to a date in the past month (that was due to the move).
All existing links and embed codes will continue to play until May 31, 2017! If you have not updated your embed codes by this date you will see an error and your media will not play. Links that have not been updated will lead to an error page. However, you will continue to be able to access your files under My Media at viuvideos.viu.ca as they are all there.
If you have embedded (or put links to) any of your VIUTube content on other websites, in documents, or in VIULearn courses you will need to update these embed codes and links by May 31. The process for linking and embedding VIUTube content to external sites has not changed. However, if you need some additional help we have some resources available:
For general information on how to obtain new links and embed codes in VIUTube see the video below.
You can also access this video on VIUTube by clicking this link.
Faculty members who need to update content in VIULearn can watch the video below or download this handout.
You can also access this video on VIUTube by clicking this link.
There are two exciting new tools available for you in VIUTube:
CaptureSpace – This is a free desktop recording tool that will allow you to capture you screen and webcam to create a recording for VIUTube. You can learn learn a little more about CaptureSpace from the manufacturer (Kaltura) by watching this video on their website.
Video Quizzing – You can now use VIUTube to add questions to your videos to gather data from your viewers or test their understanding. You can learn more about video quizzing by watching these videos from Kaltura.
We will be offering a workshop on these new tools for faculty in May and throughout next year. Please keep an eye out for emails to register.
The Centre for Innovation and Excellence in Learning is here to support you throughout this process. We are open from Monday to Friday, 9:00 am to 4:00 pm. You can email learnsupport@viu.ca or call us at 250.740.6179 (6179 from a campus phone). You can also come see us in person on the Nanaimo campus in building 305, room 511.
 Recent CommentsTammy L Ray on D2L FUSION Conference: Key Take-Aways for Higher EdBarry Dahl on D2L FUSION Conference: Key Take-Aways for Higher EdFrank Harks on Team-Based Learning Course Redesign ProgramVIULearn Upgrades to a Modern Responsive Design  April 30 | Learning Technology Service Notices on Daylight is Coming! VIULearn Upgrades to a Modern Responsive Design April 30Megan Smith on Learning to Learn: Student Study Strategies for Success! 
