transparent use of a GPU  Perform data-intensive computations much faster than on a CPU.
efficient symbolic differentiation  Theano does your derivatives for functions with one or many inputs.
speed and stability optimizations  Get the right answer for log(1+x) even when x is really tiny.
extensive unit-testing and self-verification  Detect and diagnose many types of errors.
enough to be used in the classroom (University of Montreals deep
2017/03/13: Release of Theano 0.9.0rc4, with crash fixes and bug fixes.
2017/03/06: Release of Theano 0.9.0rc3, with crash fixes, bug fixes and improvements.
2017/02/27: Release of Theano 0.9.0rc2, with crash fixes, bug fixes and improvements.
2017/02/20: Release of Theano 0.9.0rc1, many improvements and bugfixes, final release to coming.
2017/01/24: Release of Theano 0.9.0beta1, many improvements and bugfixes, release candidate to coming.
2016/03/29: Release of Theano 0.8.1, fixing a compilation issue on MacOS X with XCode 7.3.
Theano 0.7 was released 26th March 2015. Everybody is encouraged to update.
New technical report on Theano: Theano: new features and speed improvements.
You can watch a quick (20 minute) introduction to Theano given as a talk at SciPy 2010 via streaming (or downloaded) video:
Theano is now available on PyPI, and can be installed via easy_install
Theano, pip install Theano or by downloading and unpacking the tarball
You can then place the checkout directory on your $PYTHONPATH or use
directory, so that when you pull updates via Git, they will be
If you use Theano for academic research, you are highly encouraged (though not
Theano Development Team. Theano: A Python framework for fast computation of mathematical expressions.
Theano is primarily developed by academics, and so citations matter a lot to
us. As an added benefit, you increase Theanos exposure and potential user
(and developer) base, which is to the benefit of all users of Theano. Thanks
Extending Theano  Learn to add a Type, Op, or graph optimization.
Theano Design and Implementation Documentation  Primarily of interest to developers of Theano
Related Projects  link to other projects that implement new functionalities on top of Theano
You can download the latest PDF documentation, rather than reading it online.
Check out how Theano can be used for Machine Learning: Deep Learning Tutorials.
Thank YOU for correcting it so quickly. I wish all packages I worked
with would have such an active maintenance - this is as good as it
Register to theano-announce if you want to be kept informed on important change on theano(low volume).
Register and post to theano-users if you want to talk to all Theano users.
Register and post to theano-dev if you want to talk to the developers.
Register to theano-github if you want to receive an email for all changes to the GitHub repository.
Register to theano-buildbot if you want to receive our daily buildbot email.
Come visit us in Montreal! Most developers are students in the LISA group at the University of Montreal.
I got this error, why?  theano-users mailing list or StackOverflow (please include the full error message, even if its long)
I got this error and Im sure its a bug  Github ticket
I have an idea/request  post the suggestion to theano-dev or, even better, implement the idea and submit a GitHub pull request!
Why do you?  theano-users mailing list (not appropriate for StackOverflow)
When will you?  theano-dev mailing list (not appropriate for StackOverflow)
Please do take some time to search for similar questions that were asked and answered in the past. If you find something
similar that doesnt fully answer your question, it can be helpful to say something like I found X but it doesnt
When asking questions on StackOverflow, please use the theano tag, so your question can be found, and follow
python and numpy tags, especially if you are unsure which library your problem relates to.
Its often helpful to include the following details with your question:
If you have an error, the full error message, even if its long
Details of your Theano configuration settings (you can print this in Python via print theano.config)
Spending the time to create a minimal specific example of a problem is likely to get you to an answer quicker than
posting something quickly that has too much irrelevant detail or is too vague. A minimal example may take you a bit more
time to create but the first response is more likely to be the answer you need than, rather than a frustrated request
If you see a question on the theano-users mailing list, or on StackOverflow, that you
feel reasonably confident you know an answer to, please do support the community by helping others.
We were all newbies to Theano once and, as the community expands, there is a constant stream of new Theano users looking
for help. Perhaps you asked a question when you were first starting out? Now you can pay it forward by helping others.
Its also a good way to reinforce your own Theano knowledge.
Often its easiest to answer a question directly but sometimes it may be better to refer people to a good answer that
was provided in the past. Pointing people to relevant sections in the documentation, or to a Theano tutorial, can also
