This project does not have any current developer. We will continue
to review pull requests and merge them when appropriate, but do not
There are other machine learning frameworks built on top of Theano that
If youre a Pylearn2 developer and you find a bug, please write a unit test for it so
Pylearn2 is a machine learning library. Most of its functionality is built on top of
This means you can write Pylearn2 plugins (new models, algorithms, etc) using
mathematical expressions, and Theano will optimize and stabilize those expressions for
you, and compile them to a backend of your choice (CPU or GPU).
Researchers add features as they need them. We avoid getting bogged down by too
All models/algorithms published by the LISA lab should have reference implementations
Pylearn2 may wrap other libraries such as scikit-learn when this is practical
Pylearn2 differs from scikit-learn in that Pylearn2 aims to provide great flexibility
and make it possible for a researcher to do almost anything, while scikit-learn
aims to work as a black box that can produce good results even if the user does not
Small framework for all what is needed for one normal MLP/RBM/SDA/Convolution experiments.
Using one sub-component of the library does not force you to use / learn to use all of
Remain approachable enough to be used in the classroom (IFT6266 at the University of Montreal).
To make Pylearn2 available in your Python installation, run the following command in the
top-level pylearn2 directory (which should have been created by the previous command):
You may need to use sudo to invoke this command with administrator privileges.
If you do not have such access (or would rather not add Pylearn2 to the global
site-packages for whatever reason), you can install the relevant links inside the
This command will also compile the Cython extensions required for e.g.
Alternatively, you can make Pylearn2 available by adding the installation directory to your
alone wont compile the Cython extensions (you will need to make sure the extension .so
files are built and accessible within the source tree, e.g. with
For some tutorials and tests you will also need to set your PYLEARN2_DATA_PATH variable.
On Linux, the best way to do this is to add a line to your ~/.bashrc file:
Note that this is only an example, and if you are not in the LISA lab, you will need to
choose a directory path that is valid on your filesystem. Simply choose a path where
it will be convenient for you to store datasets for use with Pylearn2.
Pylearn2 in a box uses Vagrant to easily create a new VM installed with Pylearn2 and the necessary packages.
Start the VM by running vagrant up in the directory from step 3
Pylearn2 includes code for accessing several standard datasets, such as MNIST and CIFAR-10.
However, if you wish to use one of these datasets, you must download the dataset itself
for loading some datasets, such as the Unsupervised and Transfer Learning Challenge datasets
Pylearn2 is released under the 3-claused BSD license, so it may be used for commercial purposes.
The license does not require anyone to cite Pylearn2, but if you use Pylearn2 in published research
Pylearn2 is primarily developed by academics, and so citations matter a lot to
us. As an added benefit, you increase Pylearn2s exposure and potential user
(and developer) base, which is to the benefit of all users of Pylearn2. Thanks
YAML for Pylearn2  A tutorial on YAML tags employed by Pylearn2.
IPython Notebook Tutorials  At this point, you might want to work through the ipython notebooks in the scripts/tutorials
A First Experiment with Pylearn2  A brief introduction to running experiments.
Your models in Pylearn2  A tutorial on porting Theano code to Pylearn2
Overview  A detailed but high-level overview of how Pylearn2 works. This is the
place to start if you want to really learn the library.
Working with computer clusters  The tools we use at LISA for running Pylearn2 jobs on HPC clusters.
Working with large datasets in Pylearn2  A guide on how to deal with large datasets.
Pylearn2 Vision  Some more detailed elaboration of some points of the Pylearn2 vision.
F.A.Q.  Please read the FAQ section before posting to mailing-lists.
Register and post to pylearn-users for general inquiries and support questions or if you want to talk to other users.
Register and post to pylearn-dev if you want to talk to the developers. We dont bite.
Register to pylearn2-github if you want to receive an email for all changes to the GitHub
Come visit us in Montreal! Most of the developers are students in the LISA group at the University of Montreal.
Pylearn2 API Change Best Practices Guide  the best practices guide you should follow when changing any API in the library
Pylearn2 Pull Request Checklist  Things you should check your pull request for before review.
Data specifications, spaces, and sources  the interface different elements use to request and provide data
