Deep Learning is a subfield of machine learning concerned with algorithms inspired by the structure and function of the brain called artificial neural networks.
If you are just starting out in the field of deep learning or you had some experience with neural networks some time ago, you may be confused. I know I was confused initially and so were many of my colleagues and friends who learned and used neural networks in the 1990s and early 2000s.
The leaders and experts in the field have ideas of what deep learning is and these specific and nuanced perspectives shed a lot of light on what deep learning is all about.
In this post, you will discover exactly what deep learning is by hearing from a range of experts and leaders in the field.
Andrew Ng from Coursera and Chief Scientist at Baidu Research formally founded Google Brain that eventually resulted in the productization of deep learning technologies across a large number of Google services.
He has spoken and written a lot about what deep learning is and is a good place to start.
In early talks on deep learning, Andrew described deep learning in the context of traditional artificial neural networks. In the 2013 talk titled Deep Learning, Self-Taught Learning and Unsupervised Feature Learning he described the idea of deep learning as:
I believe this is our best shot at progress towards real AI
The core of deep learning according to Andrew is that we now have fast enough computers and enough data to actually train large neural networks. When discussing why now is the time that deep learning is taking off at ExtractConf 2015 in a talk titled What data scientists should know about deep learning, he commented:
very large neural networks we can now have and  huge amounts of data that we have access to
He also commented on the important point that it is all about scale. That as we construct larger neural networks and train them with more and more data, their performance continues to increase. This is generally different to other machine learning techniques that reach a plateau in performance.
for most flavors of the old generations of learning algorithms  performance will plateau.  deep learning  is the first class of algorithms  that is scalable.  performance just keeps getting better as you feed them more data
Finally, he is clear to point out that the benefits from deep learning that we are seeing in practice come from supervised learning. From the 2015 ExtractConf talk, he commented:
almost all the value today of deep learning is through supervised learning or learning from labeled data
Earlier at a talk to Stanford University titled Deep Learning in 2014 he made a similar comment:
one reason that deep learning has taken off like crazy is because it is fantastic at supervised learning
Andrew often mentions that we should and will see more benefits coming from the unsupervised side of the tracks as the field matures to deal with the abundance of unlabeled data available.
Jeff Dean is a Wizard and Google Senior Fellow in the Systems and Infrastructure Group at Google and has been involved and perhaps partially responsible for the scaling and adoption of deep learning within Google. Jeff was involved in the Google Brain project and the development of large-scale deep learning software DistBelief and later TensorFlow.
In a 2016 talk titled Deep Learning for Building Intelligent Computer Systems he made a comment in the similar vein, that deep learning is really all about large neural networks.
When you hear the term deep learning, just think of a large deep neural net. Deep refers to the number of layers typically and so this kind of the popular term thats been adopted in the press. I think of them as deep neural networks generally.
He has given this talk a few times, and in a modified set of slides for the same talk, he highlights the scalability of neural networks indicating that results get better with more data and larger models, that in turn require more computation to train.
Results Get Better With More Data, Larger Models, More ComputeSlide by Jeff Dean, All Rights Reserved.
In addition to scalability, another often cited benefit of deep learning models is their ability to perform automatic feature extraction from raw data, also called feature learning.
Yoshua Bengio is another leader in deep learning although began with a strong interest in the automatic feature learning that large neural networks are capable of achieving.
He describes deep learning in terms of the algorithms ability to discover and learn good representations using feature learning. In his 2012 paper titled Deep Learning of Representations for Unsupervised and Transfer Learning he commented:
Deep learning algorithms seek to exploit the unknown structure in the input distribution in order to discover good representations, often at multiple levels, with higher-level learned features defined in terms of lower-level features
An elaborated perspective of deep learning along these lines is provided in his 2009 technical report titled Learning deep architectures for AI where he emphasizes the importance the hierarchy in feature learning.
Deep learning methods aim at learning feature hierarchies with features from higher levels of the hierarchy formed by the composition of lower level features. Automatically learning features at multiple levels of abstraction allow a system to learn complex functions mapping the input to the output directly from data, without depending completely on human-crafted features.
In the soon to be published book titled Deep Learning co-authored with Ian Goodfellow and Aaron Courville, they define deep learning in terms of the depth of the architecture of the models.
The hierarchy of concepts allows the computer to learn complicated concepts by building them out of simpler ones. If we draw a graph showing how these concepts are built on top of each other, the graph is deep, with many layers. For this reason, we call this approach to AI deep learning.
This is an important book and will likely become the definitive resource for the field for some time. The book goes on to describe multilayer perceptrons as an algorithm used in the field of deep learning, giving the idea that deep learning has subsumed artificial neural networks.
The quintessential example of a deep learning model is the feedforward deep network or multilayer perceptron (MLP).
Peter Norvig is the Director of Research at Google and famous for his textbook on AI titled Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach.
In a 2016 talk he gave titled Deep Learning and Understandability versus Software Engineering and Verification he defined deep learning in a very similar way to Yoshua, focusing on the power of abstraction permitted by using a deeper network structure.
a kind of learning where the representation you form have several levels of abstraction, rather than a direct input to output
Geoffrey Hinton is a pioneer in the field of artificial neural networks and co-published the first paper on the backpropagation algorithm for training multilayer perceptron networks.
He may have started the introduction of the phrasing deep to describe the development of large artificial neural networks.
He co-authored a paper in 2006 titled A Fast Learning Algorithm for Deep Belief Nets in which they describe an approach to training deep (as in a many layered network) of restricted Boltzmann machines.
Using complementary priors, we derive a fast, greedy algorithm that can learn deep, directed belief networks one layer at a time, provided the top two layers form an undirected associative memory.
This paper and the related paper Geoff co-authored titled Deep Boltzmann Machines on an undirected deep network were well received by the community (now cited many hundreds of times) because they were successful examples of greedy layer-wise training of networks, allowing many more layers in feedforward networks.
In a co-authored article in Science titled Reducing the Dimensionality of Data with Neural Networks they stuck with the same description of deep to describe their approach to developing networks with many more layers than was previously typical.
We describe an effective way of initializing the weights that allows deep autoencoder networks to learn low-dimensional codes that work much better than principal components analysis as a tool to reduce the dimensionality of data.
In the same article, they make an interesting comment that meshes with Andrew Ngs comment about the recent increase in compute power and access to large datasets that has unleashed the untapped capability of neural networks when used at larger scale.
It has been obvious since the 1980s that backpropagation through deep autoencoders would be very effective for nonlinear dimensionality reduction, provided that computers were fast enough, data sets were big enough, and the initial weights were close enough to a good solution. All three conditions are now satisfied.
In a talk to the Royal Society in 2016 titled Deep Learning, Geoff commented that Deep Belief Networks were the start of deep learning in 2006 and that the first successful application of this new wave of deep learning was to speech recognition in 2009 titled Acoustic Modeling using Deep Belief Networks, achieving state of the art results.
It was the results that made the speech recognition and the neural network communities take notice, the use deep as a differentiator on previous neural network techniques that probably resulted in the name change.
The descriptions of deep learning in the Royal Society talk are very backpropagation centric as you would expect. Interesting, he gives 4 reasons why backpropagation (read deep learning) did not take off last time around in the 1990s. The first two points match comments by Andrew Ng above about datasets being too small and computers being too slow.
What Was Actually Wrong With Backpropagation in 1986?Slide by Geoff Hinton, all rights reserved.
Deep learning excels on problem domains where the inputs (and even output) are analog. Meaning, they are not a few quantities in a tabular format but instead are images of pixel data, documents of text data or files of audio data.
Yann LeCun is the director of Facebook Research and is the father of the network architecture that excels at object recognition in image data called the Convolutional Neural Network (CNN). This technique is seeing great success because like multilayer perceptron feedforward neural networks, the technique scales with data and model size and can be trained with backpropagation.
This biases his definition of deep learning as the development of very large CNNs, which have had great success on object recognition in photographs.
In a 2016 talk at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory titled Accelerating Understanding: Deep Learning, Intelligent Applications, and GPUs he described deep learning generally as learning hierarchical representations and defines it as a scalable approach to building object recognition systems:
deep learning [is]  a pipeline of modules all of which are trainable.  deep because [has] multiple stages in the process of recognizing an object and all of those stages are part of the training
Deep Learning = Learning Hierarchical RepresentationsSlide by Yann LeCun, all rights reserved.
Jurgen Schmidhuber is the father of another popular algorithm that like MLPs and CNNs also scales with model size and dataset size and can be trained with backpropagation, but is instead tailored to learning sequence data, called the Long Short-Term Memory Network (LSTM), a type of recurrent neural network.
We do see some confusion in the phrasing of the field as deep learning. In his 2014 paper titled Deep Learning in Neural Networks: An Overview he does comment on the problematic naming of the field and the differentiation of deep from shallow learning. He also interestingly describes depth in terms of the complexity of the problem rather than the model used to solve the problem.
At which problem depth does Shallow Learning end, and Deep Learning begin? Discussions with DL experts have not yet yielded a conclusive response to this question. [], let me just define for the purposes of this overview: problems of depth > 10 require Very Deep Learning.
Demis Hassabis is the founder of DeepMind, later acquired by Google. DeepMind made the breakthrough of combining deep learning techniques with reinforcement learning to handle complex learning problems like game playing, famously demonstrated in playing Atari games and the game Go with Alpha Go.
In keeping with the naming, they called their new technique a Deep Q-Network, combining Deep Learning with Q-Learning. They also name the broader field of study Deep Reinforcement Learning.
In their 2015 nature paper titled Human-level control through deep reinforcement learning they comment on the important role of deep neural networks in their breakthrough and highlight the need for hierarchical abstraction.
To achieve this,we developed a novel agent, a deep Q-network (DQN), which is able to combine reinforcement learning with a class of artificial neural network known as deep neural networks. Notably, recent advances in deep neural networks, in which several layers of nodes are used to build up progressively more abstract representations of the data, have made it possible for artificial neural networks to learn concepts such as object categories directly from raw sensory data.
Finally, in what may be considered a defining paper in the field, Yann LeCun, Yoshua Bengio and Geoffrey Hinton published a paper in Nature titled simply Deep Learning. In it, they open with a clean definition of deep learning highlighting the multi-layered approach.
Deep learning allows computational models that are composed of multiple processing layers to learn representations of data with multiple levels of abstraction.
Later the multi-layered approach is described in terms of representation learning and abstraction.
Deep-learning methods are representation-learning methods with multiple levels of representation, obtained by composing simple but non-linear modules that each transform the representation at one level (starting with the raw input) into a representation at a higher, slightly more abstract level. [] The key aspect of deep learning is that these layers of features are not designed by human engineers: they are learned from data using a general-purpose learning procedure.
This is a nice and generic a description, and could easily describe most artificial neural network algorithms. It is also a good note to end on.
In this post you discovered that deep learning is just very big neural networks on a lot more data, requiring bigger computers.
Although early approaches published by Hinton and collaborators focus on greedy layerwise training and unsupervised methods like autoencoders, modern state-of-the-art deep learning is focused on training deep (many layered) neural network models using the backpropagation algorithm. The most popular techniques are:
I hope this has cleared up what deep learning is and how leading definitions fit together under the one umbrella.
If you have any questions about deep learning or about this post, ask your questions in the comments below and I will do my best to answer them.
Dr. Jason Brownlee is a husband, proud father, academic researcher, author, professional developer and a machine learning practitioner. He is dedicated to helping developers get started and get good at applied machine learning.
I think that SVM and similar techniques still have their place. It seems that the niche for deep learning techniques is when you are working with raw analog data, like audio and image data.
first of all I would like to appreciate your effort. This is one of the best blog on deep learning I have read so far.
Well I would like to ask you if we need to extract some data like advertising boards from image, what you suggest is better SVM or CNN or do you have any better algorithm than these two in your mind?
Generally, CNNs are really good at working with image data. 
Medical Diagnosis seems like a really broad domain. You may want to narrow your scope and clearly define and frame your problem before selecting specific algorithms.
ECG interpretation may be a good problem for CNNs in that they are images. Another project is the development of a Consultant in Cardiovascular Disease analogous to MYCIN, an Infectious Disease Consultatant developed by Shortliffe & Buchanan @ Stanford ~ 40 years ago which was Rule Based.
hello, may deep learning apply to use in the stock market ?
What I mean : it doesnt just only use to draw with old data diagram and use the old model but also write down how is the next day to give the number forecast ?
Hi Jason, deep learning may apply to the stock market. 
I am not an expert in finance so I cannot give you expert advice. Try it and see.
You may be interested in this post on time series forecasting with deep learning:
Thank for your reply, I have read some your posts and I am very impressed with your work. About myself , I just start to find out what is this filed and you have many experiences about them. I hope if you have some experiences about the finance especially in stock marketpls help me some reference to learn it by myself or find the Tributeas you mentioned 🙂
loved it , thanks for the overview , answered to a lot of my question 
I am trying to find a topic for my Master-PHD proposal in Deep Learning in medical diagnosis and just wondering if there is any hot topic in this field at the moment ? and how can I learn more about this special field of Deep Learning
Thank you so much for your post. I am trying to solve an open problem with regards to embedded short text messages on the social media which are abbreviation, symbol and others. For instance, take bf can be interpret as boy friend or best friend. The input can be represent as character but how can someone encode this as input in neural network, so it can learn and output the target at the same time. Please help.
I would suggest starting off by collecting a very high-quality dataset of messages and expected translation.
I would then suggest encoding the words as integers and use a word embedding to project the integer vectors into a higher dimensional space.
In your opinion, on what field CNN could be used in developing countries?
Because there seems less raw data than developed countries, i couldnt think of any use of CNN in developing countries.
CNNs are state of the art on many problems that have spatial structure (or structure that can be made spatial). 
Anything with images is a great start, domains like text and time series are also interesting.
Hi I am an average developer in a developing country and my opinion is yes if you find a way to get all these disconnected data together than you can help on gathering these data to make it easier for developing countries not to make the same mistakes as developed countries thus bringing the cost down on becoming a developed country without the cost the research exist the implementation is the problem
I would like to ask one question, Please tell me any specific example in the area of computer vision, where shallow learning (Conventional Machine Learning) is much better than Deep Learning.
Hi I am just an average normal developer, but I find this article very informative 
If the internet and line speed was fast enough, would it mean these algorithms could learn itself or are the programs currently limited to human interaction during the learning stage 
So my actual question: the data according to me is available -> internet BUT do we (humanity currently) already have the computational ability to make sense of the data via these algorithms AND are the software developed in such a way to ignore human approval?
Dr Jason, this is an immensely helpful compilation. I researched quite a bit today to understand what Deep Learning actually is. I must say all articles were helpful, but yours make me feel satisfied about my research today. Thanks again. 
Based on my readings so far, I feel predictive analytics is at the core of both machine learning and deep learning is an approach for predictive analytics with accuracy that scales with more data and training. Would like to hear your thoughts on this.
Predictive modeling is a sub-field of machine learning, and is by far the most useful area/the area of interest right now:
This article is very interesting and useful for a beginner in machine learning like me. 
I am thinking about a project (just for my hobby) of designing a stabilization controller for a DIY Quadrotor. Do you have any advice on how and where I should start off? Can algorithms like SVM be used in this specific purpose? Is micro controller (like Arduino) able to handle this problem? 
hi jason are you fine i read your article that help me out and the comment section also
may i know that which is the latest algorithm in deep neural network 
i need your help about neural network . i am working on neural network thanks
I do not have much general material, but if you want to know how to use deep learning to solve problems, start here:
Hi Jason, I have been referring to a few of your blogs for my Machine Learning stuff. One striking feature of your blogs is simplicity which draws me regularly to this place! This is very helpful.:) Talking about Deep Learning vs traditional ML, the general conception is that Deep Learning beats a human being at its ability to do feature abstraction. Is this true?
Also, could you tell me why Deep Learning fails to achieve more than many of the traditional ML algorithms for different datasets despite the assumed superiority of DL in feature abstraction over other algorithms?
Deep learning is great at feature extraction and in turn state of the art prediction on what I call analog data, e.g. images, text, audio, etc.
It can be used on tabular data (e.g. spreadsheet of numbers) but this is not its sweet spot and often can be beaten by other methods, like gradient boosting.
There is no one algorithm to rule them all, just different algorithms for different problems and our job is to discover what works best on a given problem.
My question is what is the difference between deep neural network and CNN.
I made a deep neural network model for bulk quantitative data and get a better result than traditional​ neural method.
A CNN is a type of neural network. It can be made deep. Therefore, it is a type of deep neural network.
Yes, neural nets require all input data to be tabular (vectorized).
I cannot know if your model is right. Evaluate it carefully and compare it to other models.
if we use hierarchal training algorithm such as we use unsupervised learning autoencoder with bottleneck (hidden layer, 10,2,10) for training then use the supervised learning with same autoencoder architecture ( hidden layer, 10,2,10) to tune the unsupervised model parameter (weights, bias). These training processes are performed separately.
now the unsupervised autoencoder works as dimension reduction and extract features. does the supervised model work in the same way and extract the feature or just this step conducted in the unsupervised learning
