Deep Learning is a very hot area of Machine Learning Research, with many remarkable recent successes, such as 97.5% accuracy on face recognition, nearly perfect German traffic sign recognition, or even Dogs vs Cats image recognition with 98.9% accuracy. Many winning entries in recent Kaggle Data Science competitions have used Deep Learning.
The term "deep learning" refers to the method of training multi-layered neural networks,
papers by Geoffrey Hinton and his co-workers which showed a fast way to train such networks.
Yann LeCun, a student of Geoff Hinton, also developed a very effective algorithm for deep learning, called 
which was successfully used in late 80-s and early 90-s for automatic reading of amounts on bank checks.
See more on ConvNet and factors enabled recent success of Deep Learning in my exclusive 
hired Andrew Ng, a leading Machine Learning and Deep Learning expert (and co-founder of Coursera) to head their new AI Lab in Silicon Valley, setting up an AI & Deep Learning race with
Google (which hired Geoff Hinton) and Facebook (which hired Yann LeCun to head Facebook AI Lab).
Here are some useful and free (!) resources for learning and using Deep Learning:
Deep Learning: Methods and Applications book (134 pages) from the Microsoft Speech Group
Watch: Deep Learning Tutorial by John Kaufhold at Washington, DC Data Science Meetup, 2014
 Where are the Deep Learning Courses?, blog by John Kaufhold, data scientist and managing partner of Deep Learning Analytics.
 How Deep Learning will change our world, summary of Melbourne Data Science presentation by Jeremy Howard.
 Torch7, an extension of the LuaJIT language which includes an object-oriented package for deep learning and computer vision. The main advantage of Torch7 is that LuaJIT is extremely fast and very flexible.
 Theano + Pylearn2, which has the advantage of using Python (widely used), and the disadvantage of using Python (slow for big data).
 cuda-convnet, High-performance C++/CUDA implementation of convolutional neural networks, based on Yann LeCun work.
KDnuggets Exclusive: Interview with Yann LeCun, Deep Learning Expert, Director of Facebook AI Lab
KDnuggets Exclusive: Part 2 of the Interview with Yann LeCun 
 Cartoon: Machine Learning Class Adobe: Sr. Data Science Engineer Upcoming Meetings in AI, Analytics, Big Data,... Global AI Conference, New York City, October ... WCAI Analytics Accelerator Challenge Search Millions of Documents for Thousands of...
