(212)998-3283     yann [ a t ] cs.nyu.edu     yann [ a t ] fb.com
Administrative aide: Hong Tam (212)998-3374     hongtam [ a t ] cs.nyu.edu
Note: the best way to reach me is by email or through Hong (I don't check my voicemail very often).
2013-10-16: announcing the 2014 International Conference on Learning Representations: a conference about deep learning, feature learning, compositional hierarhcical models, etc. It uses an open reviewing process similar to what I advocate in this pamphlet.
 Biological Learning Lab, my research group at the Courant Institute, NYU.
CILVR Lab: Computational Intelligence, Vision Robotics Lab: a 20-person lab consisting of my colleagues Rob Fergus, Savid Sontag and me, together with our students and postdocs.
VLG: The Vision-Learning-Graphics Group consisting of the CILVR Lab, plus our colleagues in computer graphics, movement analysis, and human-computer interfaces.
 where you will find our latest results, before they may receive a stamp of approval.
This pamphlet proposes a new publishing model based on an open repository
and open (but anonymous) reviews which creates a "market" between papers
Animals and humans can learn to see, perceive, act, and communicate
with an efficiency that no Machine Learning method can approach. The
brains of humans and animals are "deep", in the sense that each action
is the result of a long chain of synaptic communications (many layers
surmise that understanding deep learning will not only enable us to
We are developing a new type of relational graphical models that can
price of a house depends not only on the characteristics of the house,
but also of the prices of similar houses in the neighborhood, or
funded by the US government, is to design vision and learning algorithms
can be viewed as a form of non-probabilistic factor graphs, and they
Lush combines three languages in one: a very simple to use,
with the same syntax, and the C language, which can be freely mixed
with the other languages within a single source file, and even
Matlab and other existing tools, Lush is for you. If you want a 
Lush is for you. Lush is Free Software (GPL) and runs under GNU/Linux,
DjVu is a document format, a set of compression methods and a software
platform for distributing scanned and digitally produced documents on the Web.
DjVu image files of scanned documents are typically 3-8 times 
smaller than PDF or TIFF-groupIV for bitonal and 5-10 times 
smaller than PDF or JPEG for color (at 300 DPI). DjVu versions
 a description of DjVu, and a set of useful links.
 at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, October 22 2001.
 free plug-ins for Windows and Mac, free and commercial applications
 your documents and get them converted to DjVu. Bib2Web automates
Convolutional Nets are a special kind of neural net architecture designed 
to recognize images directly from pixel data. Convolutional Nets can be
A system I helped develop reads an estimated 10 percent of
MNIST is widely used by researchers as a benchmark for testing 
I have several interests beside my family (my wife and three sons)
 and Baroque music. A few MP3 and MIDI files of Renaissance music are 
 preferably battery powered, radio controled, and unconventional in their design.
Building robots: particularly Lego robots (before the days of the Lego Mindstorms)
 I have owned 5 computers between 1978 and 1992: SYM-1, OSI C2-4P, Commodore 64, 
 Amiga 1000, Amiga 4000. then I lost interest in personal computing when the only thing
 you could get was a boring Wintel box. Then, Linux appeared and I came back to life.....
Sailing: I own two sport catamarans, a Nacra 5.8 and a Prindle 19. I also sail 
Graphic Design: I designed the DjVu logo and much of the AT&T DjVu web site.
Reading European comics. Comics in certain European countries (France, Belgium, Italy,
 Spain) are considered a true art form ("le 8-ieme art"), and not just a business with
 products targeted at teenagers like on this side of the pond. Although I don't have
 a shred of evidence to support it, I claim to have the largest private collection 
 have much of an audience this side of the pond.
include the ever so popular Support Vector Machine, the PlayMail and 
Virt2Elle synthetic talking heads, the Net32K and ANNA neural net chips, 
