has been extremely successful in the past two decades and is now
applied in many areas of science and technology, some well known
frontiers of machine learning is to make sense of the data, i.e., to
complicated and highly-varying functions such as those that are necessary to perform
An introductory discussion of recent and ongoing research is below. 
a hot topic, why should we care? to be able to represent complicated functions compactly
architectures: ok, we need deep architectures, but what how do we train them?
distributed representations: depth is not enough, but is often combined with distributed representations.
deep architectures: training deep architectures presents a fundamental non-convex optimization challenge. 
language modeling: we'll need to address that to deal with data involving time (language, video, music, etc.)
 progress on deep learning towards AI, and comes with apparently intractable challenges.
 We study how models based on auto-encoders can be used both to learn features and as generative models,
 avoiding some of these issues, and potentially opening the door to methods that can disentangle
 the underlying factors of variation and do better credit assignment in
Challenges for the Science and Engineering of Learning, one of the
system to learn complex functions mapping the input to the output
which humans often do not know how to specify explicitly. Complexity theory theorems suggest
that one of the missing ingredients in current learning algorithms is depth of architecture (the number of
levels of composition in the learned function, e.g. number of layers of
On the right the circuit implements a neural nework with three layers.
layers, and that can be trained in an unsupervised way, one layer at a
Each layer represents a factor model for the layer below, and
altogether we obtain a highly non-linear factor model. Since 2006, the
number of papers on deep architectures has grown very quickly, several
experimental results have been obtained on a wide variety of tasks, and
research question. Hinton et al introduced Deep Belief Networks in a 2006
From our lab, these other papers can be considered follow-up work on
We would prefer to call it the curse of highly-varying functions or the
curse of locality. That curse occurs when the only way a learning
algorithm generalizes to a new case x is by exploiting only a raw
This is typically done by the learner looking in its training examples
for cases that are close to x according to some similarity measure. One
can often interpret what these algorithms do as some kind of
approximate a function by many small linear or constant pieces. We need
at least one example for each piece. We can figure out what each piece
should look like by looking mostly at the examples in the neighborhood
of each piece. If the target function has a lot of variations, we'll
need correspondingly many training examples. In dimension d (or on a
if we are lucky, we may still obtain good results when we are trying to
associated with two classes of objects. Even though each manifold may
have many variations, they might be separable by a smooth (maybe even
when the distribution of examples is very noisy, because it is
difficult to capture much signal then (and a smooth predictor is pretty
data. Because many examples can inform us about each of these factors,
and because each factor may tell us something about examples that are
very far from the training examples, it is possible to generalize
or when the function to capture can be described with a smooth
manifold. But when the target function has many ups and downs, one
one requires an exponential number of training examples to cover it. To
cover and discriminate among  N regions in input space, one would
need O(N) examples with a local learning algorithm, but N can grow to
partition of the space, and K hyper-planes (= K linear classifiers = K
hidden units of a neural net) can capture and discriminate among 2**K
Samy Bengio and Yoshua Bengio, Taking on the Curse of Dimensionality in
Joint Distributions Using Neural Networks, in: IEEE Transaction on Neural Networks,
special issue on data mining and knowledge discovery, volume 11, number
And this one an attempt to introduce a non-local component in a
predict the manifold structure at each point x, as a function of x:
Yoshua Bengio, Hugo Larochelle and Pascal Vincent, Non-Local Manifold Parzen Windows,
One basic hypothesis of our work is that the main stumbling block
explaining past failures at training deep architectures is due to an
The optimization problem is made difficult because of the presence of
local minima and plateaus. However, it is encouraging to note that
problem is made difficult because of the presence of local minima and
plateaus. The working strategies we know of involve at least one of
Since deeper networks are more difficult to train than shallow ones, it
is not surprising to find that many of the 'guiding' strategies can be
seen as giving hints to the hidden layers, to help them move to regions
near good solutions to the learning task. It is conjectured that in
order to generalize to a wide array of tasks (e.g. all related to
data examples that have not been hand-labeled) is crucial. One way to
observe that they exploit the idea that one can get near a good
criterion, and gradually making it closer to the target criterion of
interest, tracking a local minimum along the way (this is called a
Our research objective is to further improve our understanding of these
algorithms and to exploit it to develop new strategies for training
inspiration from the natural world comes from the way in which children
children learn in stages, moving to a next stage only after having
understanding of the world. That is why schooling is normally organized
in the form of a curriculum. This principle is also called shaping in
the world of animal training, where a sequence of gradually more
This is a new research thread in my lab, and the only published work
method for deep neural networks is with the difficulty in optimizing
the lower layers. We also show the importance of the unsupervised layer-wise
In this paper we summarize several of the above ideas on strategies
that have been or may be employed to circumvent the optimization
One of the highest impact results I obtained was about the difficulty
propagated through many time steps is a poor source of information for
propagate it from the past to the future through a context variable, or
it is vulnerable to perturbations and noise), or the gradients relating
Yoshua Bengio, Patrice Simard and Paolo Frasconi, Learning Long-Term Dependencies with
Yoshua Bengio and Paolo Frasconi, Diffusion of Credit in Markovian Models,
Is there any hope? Humans seem to manage to learn through many time
Salah El Hihi and Yoshua Bengio, Hierarchical Recurrent Neural Networks for
Sutskever (U. Toronto), all suggest that there may be ways around the
issues introduced in the above papers in the mid-90's. Exploring these
potential solutions is one of the current undertakings in my lab.
statistical structure of language. We have been working on such models
and continue to do so. Our early work was meant to show the advantage
This work has been followed up by many, as discussed in this
The Baby AI project is a way to make concrete the above research, with
the additional insight that a major source of data about "the world of
television shows, or web pages, and that images (or image sequences)
and natural language (in the form of textual captions or of sound) are
communicate with humans through these modalities, an AI will need to
reinforce each other in the process of extracting the regularities we
In the short term we want to explore the limitations of current
two advantages to this "starting small" strategy. Firstly, it is easier
to understand what works and does not work when the setting and the
mastered a set of concepts, it makes sense to apply them to more
complex ones and we can even initialize the new models using the models
trained on the simpler concepts. In the medium term, we would like to
add to virtual data (for which we know the underlying true semantics)
unlabeled data from a very rich source such as TV programs.
Some of the basic research questions that we explore in this setting
feature sets for various tasks and as new tasks emerge more effort will
be required to devise new ones. The demonstrated ability of deep
new applications for machine learning. We want to explore more learning
performance and robustness of a system that uses these features, as has
already been confirmed by us and others, not only in classification
context; this is related to older research on long term dependencies
only observe images, in others only text and sound, etc. We would like
our algorithms to be able to infer "explanations" about the input that
can take into account the modalities that are available in each
modality that can be disjoint or connected, according to the need.
asynchronous. How to unify them in the perspective of learning the
can be quite big. So is the vocabulary. We would like to process them
in a reasonable time, so the learning time per frame is of the order of
Unsupervised learning attempts to discover structure in the data, and in its most general form
that means that the joint distribution between the observed variable is captured. It may then
be possible to answer an exponential number of questions about these variables, e.g., 
Whereas estimating a probability function by maximum likelihood is statistically efficient
(with the right model structure) it poses intractable computational challenges, which
are revealed when studing various graphical models such as Boltzmann machines and directed
graphical models. We attempt to better understand these issues and either find solutions
within this framework or explore completely different approaches to unsupervised learning,
both tractable deep generative models and potentially replace back-prop as a means
