identifying if a desire expressed by a subject in a given short
attempt to exploit structure in the problem and are based on
sizes and types they can handle. We present an approach to mitigate
a property that can be thought of as “anonymous influence” in the
in a factor graph but in particular also for the approximate linear
unsolvable. Our results are shown for the control of a stochastic
disease process over a densely connected graph with 50 nodes and 25
influence diagram was used to optimize the speed profile of a
Formula 1 race car at the Silverstone F1 circuit. The computed lap
time and speed profiles correspond well to those achieved by test
pilots. An extended version of our model that considers a more
currently being tested onboard a testing car by a major car
powerful in many ways. In particular, they learn a predictive model
designed to do the same. Such an RNNAI can be trained on
never-ending sequences of tasks, some of them provided by the user,
others invented by the RNNAI itself in a curious, playful fashion,
basic ideas of this report can be applied to many other cases where
another. They are taken from a grant proposal submitted in Fall
learning (RL) is a general and well-known method that a robot can
use to learn an optimal control policy to solve a particular task.
We would like to build a versatile robot that can learn multiple
tasks, but using RL for each of them would be prohibitively
expensive in terms of both time and wear-and-tear on the robot. To
ground robot whose task is to find a target object in an
hundreds or even tens of agents operating in the e-market. In this
solutions of smaller sub-POMDPs. We propose a number of variants of
Experiments show that MOPE can scale up to a hundred agents thereby
system has been able to reach human levels of performance so far.
processing is the human brain. While we gather more and more data
remain obscure. The lack of a sound computational brain theory also
precision and recall , the complex tuning procedures etc., can be
(MMDP) such structure is not present. We propose a new optimal
conditional return graphs (CRGs). Using CRGs the value of a joint
policy and the bounds on partially specified joint policies can be
combine the strengths of both architectures and propose a novel and
results show that the C-LSTM outperforms both CNN and LSTM and can
level 1 deal with aspect mapping task, and a single CNN at level 2
training data. For binary relations, one only has to provide a few
dozen pairs of entities per relation, as training data. For ternary
people know that Google acquired Youtube but not the dollar amount
or the date of the acquisition and many people know that Hillary
Clinton is married to Bill Clinton by not the location or date of
time consuming exercise in searching the Web. We present a resource
and to learn the proposed models in a document-wise manner. Our
shows the superiority of our learned word vectors. We also learn
explosion of user generated content on the Web, especially the fact
that millions of users, on a daily basis, express their opinions on
one or more of the popular computer vision feature descriptors. We
propose to build a classifier based on one of the recently
classification. The benefit is an easier system to build (no need
experiments show that it is even more accurate than the state of
provide a wealth of data that could be used to learn the appearance
for organizing the content of a collection of videos of an
clustered by type. It relies on our novel motion representation for
appearance variations (e.g. an adult tiger and a cub). It uses a
time. We carefully evaluate each step of our system on a new, fully
this work, we explore and employ the relationship between shape of
kernels which define Receptive Fields (RFs) in CNNs for learning of
the literature for modeling of visual systems, we propose a novel
design of shape of kernels for learning of representations in CNNs.
images into K subsets of similar images and learns an expert DCNN
for each subset. The output from each of the K DCNNs is combined to
pairs. A mapping is learned such that the extracted features are
to unseen data, the system has to be trained with a large amount of
that can reap the benefits of training on large datasets without
texts as well as to stimulate novel ideas and solutions. This
specific problems. The impact of the loss layer of neural networks,
the default and most common choice is L2. This can be particularly
approached either by analyzing pairs of images or by optimizing a
an unknown symbol is often hard, but writing the symbol is easy.
to create an optimized recognizer which has a TOP1 error of less
than 17.5% and a TOP3 error of 4.0%. This is an improvement of
consumer RGB-D scanners set off a major boost in 3D computer vision
accurate enough to recover fine details of a scanned object. While
work well with Lambertian objects, they break down in the presence
monochromatic IR projector and IR images of the RGB-D scanners and
present a lighting model that accounts for the specular regions in
the input image. Using this model, we reconstruct the depth map in
deep-sea coral reefs is a recent proposed idea to support the
and other species. This idea can be operated through using many
techniques to locate and replace chunks of coral which have been
The aim of this project is developing machine vision algorithms to
enable an underwater robot to locate a coral reef and a chunk of
coral on the seabed and prompt the robot to pick it up. Although
there is no literature on this particular problem, related work on
fish counting may give some insight into the problem. The technical
challenges are principally due to the potential lack of clarity of
image locations of the human joints are provided and (ii) the image
locations of joints are unknown. In the former case, a novel
former case is extended by treating the image locations of the
trained to predict the uncertainty maps of the 2D joint locations.
algorithm over the entire sequence, where it is shown that the 2D
to label the test sample. It was a common belief that sparseness of
scheme. However, more recently, it has been claimed that it is the
effective. This claim is attractive as it allows to relinquish the
only a few modes of separation and much of its dimensionality is
unutilized. In this work, we suggest to learn, in the source
usage of mobile technology in higher education needs not only the
benefits. Some of the benefits are: the process of learning itself
formulation of such a maturity model by which the process of
incrementing the level of awareness in the operating room and for
with an higher degree of abstraction. In the first layer, raw data
features from the data. Finally, in the last layer, expert systems
many applications. In this paper, we present a new method of
this approach can often match or even surpass the performance of
resources from different providers and get the best of each of them
platforms are needed to help developers to succeed. Aneka is one
improves its total execution time when it is deployed in the
to the range between 1 and 1024 software processes and hardware
network was distributed over a set of MPI processes and the
simulations were run on a server platform composed of up to 64
v3 processors (8 cores @ 2.4 GHz clock). All nodes are interconned
European FET Project and will be used by the WaveScalEW tem in the
Kucherov (1998) and Alon et al. (2004-2005) study the problem of
this problem. Precisely, we consider a graph G and a subgraph H of
G and we assume that G contains exactly one defective subgraph
isomorphic to H. The goal is to find the defective subgraph by
defective subgraph, with the minimum number of tests. We present an
upper bound for the number of tests to find the defective subgraph
facts. In this paper, we train a classifier for detecting the
we automatically label training data from raw query logs. We use
queries as those queries that mostly lead to Wikipedia articles. We
investigated a large set of features that can be generated to
(e.g. Freebase). Results show that using these feature sets it is
possible to achieve an F1 score above 87%, competing with a
Google-based baseline, which uses a much wider set of signals to
example (ESbE) refers to a type of entity acquisition query in
which a user provides a set of example entities as the query and
exist in the literature. However, they mostly build only on the
idea of entity co-occurrences either in text or web lists, without
concepts implied by the query entity set, and the entities that
the accuracy of the queries processed with this new method is
the problem of finding typical entities when the concept is given
as a query. For a short concept such as university, this is a
entities found for the concept in Hearst patterns of the web
cannot and should not be pre-materialized. Our goal is an online
baseline of rewriting LCQs into an intersection of an expanded set
mis-classification errors, but it is not clear whether or how such
that takes into account the cost information into not only the
outperforms other deep learning models that do not digest the cost
natural signals and images in a transform domain or dictionary has
coding step. In this work, we investigate an efficient method for
the training data set with a sum of sparse rank-one matrices and
investigates the question of how the naive Bayes classifier and the
Stock Exchange of Thailand. The theory behind the SVM and the naive
the SET100 Index. The Weka 3 software is used to create models from
measurements are the used to compare the two algorithms. This essay
Bayes is better than the support vector machine at predicting the
regression problem, where a bag of $x$observations is mapped to a
single $y$ value, a onestep solution is proposed. The problem of
in a bag as random vector. Then RadonNikodym or least squares
important in many big data applications. There are at least two
in an online manner such that each feature can be processed in a
sequential scan. In this paper, we develop SAOLA, a Scalable and
that arrives by groups, we extend our SAOLA algorithm, and then
feature groups that is sparse at the level of both groups and
series of benchmark real data sets shows that our two algorithms,
SAOLA and group-SAOLA, are scalable on data sets of extremely high
of at least 30 frames per second, just to not get crashed in the
wall. In order to compromise for the weak hardware, we suggest
small scaled subset of the original $n$ tracked markers on the
as using the full set of $n$ markers. We prove that such a coreset
the cloud using one slow thread, and using the last computed
coreset locally using a second parallel thread, we explain and show
some types more than other types, for instance: Is, Ps, IPs, TPs,
and INs are significantly represented in that group as opposed to
local communities or modules of the network. In this article, we
which correspond to the stable states of a neuro-system built based
The resolution limit of these functions enable us to propose a
core over time in real world networks. This paper proposes evolving
give us a window to peek the essential relationships among nodes.
In this paper, first of all we propose a new metric “similarity
rate” in order to capture the changing rate of similarities between
node-pairs though all networks; secondly, we try to use this new
similarity rate function well for giving us a way to uncover
However, there exist very few formal studies of the actual role of
communities in social networks, how they emerge, and how they are
structured. The goal of this paper is to propose a mathematical
networks. We assume that there is a population of agents who are
content they are interested in. The goal of agents is to form
model is very simple, the obtained results suggest that it indeed
analysis of mass media in the social sciences has become necessary
use of opinion mining. We design and implement the POPmine system
(news items in mainstream media sites) and social media (blogs and
are used to quantify the importance of a node in a given complex
method uses degree centrality value of the node and few network
are total number of nodes, minimum, maximum and average degree of
plays a key role in suicide prevention. In this paper, we propose
words are reported to affect performance of suicide most, and the
predicting model has a accuracy higher than 0.60, shown by the
opinion mining is the field of study related to analyze opinions,
express their opinions or sentiments on the videos that they watch
on such sites. This paper presents a brief survey of techniques to
susceptible and infected nodes of the stochastic SIR process on a
complete graph converges as the number of nodes increases to the
and Beck (2015) to the SIR process, we show convergence in
ODEs with the addition of quadratic terms for the number of new
apply a random linear map to the data. This dimension reduction
the set. The question is how large the embedding dimension must be
dimension reduction maps and a large class of data sets. It proves
that there is a phase transition in the success probability of the
given data set, the location of the phase transition is the same
for all maps in this family. Furthermore, each map has the same
derive an inversion formula for the Laplace transform of a density
observed on a curve in the complex domain, which generalizes the
the case of a Laplace transform of a smooth density. As an
sparse high dimensional designs. Here we extend the idea of SLOPE
to deal with the situation when one aims at selecting whole groups
propose an efficient algorithm for its solution. We also define a
notion of the group false discovery rate (gFDR) and provide a
choice of the sequence of tuning parameters for gSLOPE so that gFDR
is provably controlled at a prespecified level if the groups of
variables are orthogonal to each other. Moreover, we prove that the
regressors from different groups. We also provide a method for the
apply to a wide variety of practical situations that allow for
of real-world networks, the power law inevitably has a cutoff at
the giant component $S$ in the large-network limit. We show that
$S$ as a function of $\Delta$ increases fast when $\Delta$ is just
large enough for the giant component to exist, but increases ever
$\tau$ of the degree distribution. The worst rate of convergence is
found to be for the case $\tau\approx2$, which concerns many of the
of output dimensions is set a priori by the number of output
dimensions in sensory inputs is variable there is a need for
the offline setting, are optimized by the projections of the input
algorithms and map them onto the dynamics of neuronal activity in
Remarkably, in the last two networks, neurons are divided into two
updates that depend on the activity of only pre- and postsynaptic
resultant fidelity for each gate is above 99.9%, which is an
We test our policy in the presence of decoherence-induced noise as
window. We illustrate this strategy on a ground wind speed forecast
for several months in 2012 for a region near the Great Lakes in the
United States. The results show that the prediction is improved in
problem in biological studies. In this paper, we model the network
change as the difference of two precision matrices and propose a
Under a new irrepresentability condition, we show that the new loss
this one I set up a temporal network simulation environment for
strategy consists of a sampling design to select nodes in the
network. An intervention is applied to nodes in the sample for the
purpose of changing the wider network in some desired way. The
as viruses that spread in the network, programs to prevent or
reduce the virus spread, and the agency of individual nodes, such
idealized versions of the sampling designs used to that study. The
designs in real situations and to provide a simple inference of
other probabilistic procedures to add units to the sample and have
an ongoing attrition process by which units are removed from the
Ciprian M. Crainiceanu, Elizabeth L. Ogburn, Brian S. Caffo, Tor D.
significant research on the topic in recent years, little work has
(mediator) is a high-dimensional vector. In this work we present a
called the directions of mediation (DMs). The first DM is defined
SEM. The subsequent DMs are defined as linear combinations of the
previous DMs and maximize the likelihood of the SEM. We provide an
obtained estimators. This method is well suited for cases when many
cross-validation is a residual sum of squares it can be written as
a quadratic form. This allows us to apply the inference framework
constraints to the model that minimizes CV test error. Our only
requirement on the model training pro- cedure is that its selection
includes both Lasso and forward stepwise, which serve as our main
when the objective is evaluated on a CPU and the constraints are
problems. In addition to this, we consider problems with a mix of
of PESC and in the actual evaluation of the target objective. We
for PESC which trades off accuracy against speed. We then propose a
updates for PESC. This allows us to interpolate between versions of
PESC that are efficient in terms of function evaluations and those
lot of effort has been put to generalize the binary SVM to
written as two-block convex programs, for which the ADMM has global
is much larger than the number of coefficients ($n \gg p \gg 1$). In this
where the rows of the design matrix are samples from a sub-gaussian
Machine (SVM) has been used in a wide variety of classification
problems. The original SVM uses the hinge loss function, which is
function. We first explore the use of the Proximal Gradient (PG)
we show that our algorithm converges linearly. In addition, we give
based on which we further accelerate the algorithm by a two-stage
