http://www.is.cas.cn/xshd2016/xsbg2016/201605/t20160523_4607082.html
 文章来源：  |  发布时间：2016-04-19  |  【打印】 【关闭】
 报告题目：Data-driven technology-enabled business intelligence      　　报告人：Dr. Feida Zhu　　时间：2016年4月21日  10:00　　地点：5号楼四层第二会议室 　　 报告摘要: Our time has been characterised by an explosion of data of all sorts.  In particular, the recent blossom of social network services has provided everyone with an unprecedented level of ease and fun of sharing information of all kinds. These public social data therefore reveal a surprisingly large amount of information about an individual which is otherwise unavailable. The business, consumer and social insights attainable from this big and dynamic social data are critically important and immensely valuable in a wide range of applications for both private and public sectors.  What can we tell from the social data on the context of consumer behaviour, such that we can enrich the transaction-based data of traditional corporate databases? How can we unleash the power of social connections to identify potential high-value customers and perform cost-effective risk management?  How to achieve dynamic social listening on 200 million users and detect in realtime marketing opportunities based on bursty events?   In this talk, we will introduce a cluster of research results that underlie some initial answers to these questions, along with recent advances in real-life enterprise-level applications.  报告人简介: Feida Zhu is an assistant professor in School of Information Systems, Singapore Management University (SMU). His research interests include large-scale data mining, text mining, graph/network mining and social network analysis. He has published more than 70 papers in referred international conferences and journals, including ICDE, VLDB, SIGMOD, ICDM, WWW, JMLR, TODS, TKDE, etc. His work has won The Best Paper Award at 2016 International Conference on Database Systems for Advanced Applications (DASFAA’16) and The Best Student Paper Awards at 2007 IEEE International Conference on Data Engineering (ICDE’07) and 2007 Pacific-Asia Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (PAKDD’07).  Feida is the Founding Director of the Pinnacle Lab for Analytics and the DBS-SMU Life Analytics Lab with multimillion-dollar support from leading industrial partners across a variety of industries including China Ping An Insurance Group, DBS bank, Procter & Gamble and Porsche to focus on social media mining and analysis for business innovation.  Feida obtained his Ph.D. in Computer Science from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign (UIUC) in 2009, supervised by Prof. Jiawei Han.　　　　
