http://english.is.cas.cn/ns/ue/201001/t20100104_49713.html
 [2010-1-5]NetTube: Exploring Social Networks for Peer-to-Peer Short Video Sharing 
Speaker：Dr. Jiangchuan LIU  　　  （Simon Fraser University, metro-Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada）
Abstract：The recent four years have witnessed an explosion of networked video sharing, represented by YouTube, as a new killer Internet application. Their sustainable development however is severely hindered by the intrinsic limit of their client/server architecture. A shift to the peer-to-peer paradigm has been widely suggested with success already shown in live video streaming and movie-on-demand. Unfortunately, our latest measurement demonstrate that short video clips exhibit drastically different statistics, which would simply render these existing solutions suboptimal, if not entirely inapplicable.Our long-term measurement over five million YouTube video clips, on the other hand, reveal interesting social networks with strong clustering among the videos, thus opening new opportunities to explore. In this talk, I will present NetTube, a novel peer-to-peer assisted delivering framework that explores the clustering in social networks for short video sharing. We address a series of key design issues to realize the system, including a bi-layer overlay, an efficient indexing scheme, and a pre-fetching strategy leveraging social networking.I will also briefly talk about some of my research works in other directions, particularly on wireless sensor networking.
Biography：Jiangchuan Liu received the BEng degree (cum laude) from Tsinghua University, Beijing, China, in 1999, and the PhD degree from The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology in 2003, both in computer science. He is a recipient of Microsoft Research Fellowship (2000), Hong Kong Young Scientist Award (2003), and Canada NSERC DAS Award (2009). He is a co-recipient of the Best Student Paper Award of IWQoS'2008 and the Best Paper Award (2009) of IEEE Multimedia Communications Technical Committee (MMTC). He is currently an Associate Professor in the School of Computing Science, Simon Fraser University, British Columbia, Canada, and was an Assistant Professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at The Chinese University of Hong Kong from 2003 to 2004. His research interests include multimedia systems and networks, wireless ad hoc and sensor networks, and peer-to-peer and overlay networks. He is a Senior Member of IEEE and a member of Sigma Xi. He is an Associate Editor of IEEE Transactions on Multimedia, and an editor of IEEE Communications Surveys and Tutorials. He is TPC Vice Chair for Information Systems of IEEE INFOCOM'2011. 
