http://english.is.cas.cn/ns/ue/200903/t20090329_25784.html
 Title：Adaptation in Dynamic Computing Systems: Two Perspectives Speaker：Weisong Shi （Wayne State University）
Abstract： Adaptation is an important principle in computer systems design. In this talk, I will describe how to leverage this principle from two perspectives. One is an adaptive application-level framework in heterogeneous environments, the other is a trust-based mechanism for resource sharing in community computing environments. 
First, the rapid growth of heterogeneous devices and diverse networks in our daily life, makes it is very difficult, if not impossible, to build a one-size-fits-all application or protocol, which can run well in such a dynamic environment. We observe several important adaptation goals for the heterogeneous environment as communication, security, and energy. Taking deployment into account as well, in the first part of the talk we propose a novel application level protocol adaptation framework, Fractal, which uses the mobile code technology for protocol adaptation and leverages existing content distribution networks for protocol adaptors deployment. 
Second, we have witnessed the necessity of collaboration in massively community computing environments, e.g., the PlanetLab experimental platform for distributed systems, P2P file sharing for fast information dissemination, collaborative high performance computing for scientific computing, and so on. In such an open computing environment, we need to answer the following question: How to pick up the nodes with good quality? In the second part of the talk, I will present aPET, an adaptive PErsonalized Trust model which combines the self experience and rating to derive the trustworthiness. 
With the help of aPET, we employ the trustworthiness information to discovery the reliable and trustable cooperators, so to bring the high quality of the cooperation. 
At the end of the talk, I will give an overview of the other ongoing research activities in our research group. 
About the speaker： Dr. Weisong Shi is currently an Associate Professor of Computer Science at Wayne State University. He received his B.S. from Xidian University in 1995, and Ph.D. degree from the Chinese Academy of Sciences in 2000, both in Computer Engineering. His current research focuses on high performance computing, distributed systems, and mobile computing. He is the author of the book "Performance Optimization of Software Distributed Shared Memory Systems". He is a recipient of Microsoft Fellowship in 1999, the President outstanding award of the Chinese Academy of Sciences in 2000, one of 100 outstanding Ph.D. dissertations (China) in 2002, "Faculty Research Award" of Wayne State University in 2004 and 2005, the "Best Paper Award" of ICWE04 and IEEE IPDPS05, a guest editor of JPDC (2006), IEEE Internet Computing (2009). He is a recipient of the NSF CAREER Award in 2007. 
