http://english.is.cas.cn/ns/ue/200912/t20091216_49387.html
 [12-22]Energy and Time Constrained Task Scheduling on Multiprocessor Computers with Variable Voltage and Speed 
 Title：Energy and Time Constrained Task Scheduling on Multiprocessor Computers with Variable Voltage and Speed
（State University of New York at New Paltz, New York 12561, USA）
There are compelling economic, environmental, and technical reasons for emphasis on energy efficiency. Reducing processor energy consumption has been an important and pressing research issue in recent years. There has been increasing interest and importance in developing high performance and energy efficient computing systems. Dynamic power management at the operating system level refers to supply voltage and clock frequency adjustment schemes implemented while tasks are running. In this talk, we address energy and time constrained power allocation and task scheduling on multiprocessor computers with dynamically variable voltage and frequency and speed and power as combinatorial optimization problems. In particular, we investigate the problem of minimizing schedule length with energy consumption constraint and the problem of minimizing energy consumption with schedule length constraint on multiprocessor computers. Our scheduling problems are defined such that the energy-delay product is optimized by fixing one factor and minimizing the other. We present and analyze the performance of pre-power-determination algorithms and post-power-determination algorithms. We demonstrate both numerical data and simulation results of our performance bounds. We point out that our problems can be extended to various task models, processor models, and scheduling models.
Dr. Keqin Li received B.S. degree in computer science from Tsinghua University, China, in 1985, and Ph.D. degree in computer science from the University of Houston in 1990. In March 2009, the Board of Trustees of the State University of New York (the largest comprehensive system of public higher education in USA) appointed Dr. Keqin Li to the rank of SUNY Distinguished Professor (the state university’s highest faculty designation) for his internationally recognized prolific research and exemplary scholarship and leading role in the area of parallel and distributed computing. Professor Li’s research interests are mainly in the areas of design and analysis of algorithms, parallel and distributed computing, and computer networking. He has contributed extensively to approximation algorithms, parallel algorithms, job scheduling, task dispatching, load balancing, performance evaluation, dynamic tree embedding, scalability analysis, parallel computing using optical interconnects, wireless networks, and optical networks. His current research interests include power-aware computing, location management in wireless communication networks, lifetime maximization in sensor networks, and file sharing in peer-to-peer systems. He has published over 215 journal articles, book chapters, and research papers in refereed international conference proceedings. He has received several Best Paper Awards for his highest quality work. His research has been supported by US National Science Foundation, US National Aeronautics and Space Administration, SUNY Research Foundation, and State of New York/United University Professions. Professor Li has served in various capacities for numerous international conferences as general chair, program chair, workshop chair, track chair, and steering/advisory/award/program committee member. 
