http://english.is.cas.cn/ns/ue/201005/t20100525_54515.html
Venue: Lecture room, State Key Laboratory of Computer Science, Level 3 Building #5, Institute of Software, CAS
Theories identifying well-formed systems of processes---those that are free of communication errors and enjoy strong properties such as deadlock freedom---are based either on session types, which are inhabited by channels, or on contracts, which are inhabited by processes. Current session type theories impose overly restrictive disciplines while contract theories only work for networks with fixed topology. Here we fill the gap between the two approaches by defining a theory of contracts for so-called mobile processes, those whose communications may include delegations and channel references.
Former founder and head of the “Programming Languages” group in École Normale Supérieure, since fall 2006 Giuseppe Castagna has CNRS Senior Researcher position in the PPS Laboratory in University Paris 7. Secretary of AFIF (Association Française d'Informatique Fondamentale: French chapter of EATCS), member of the Conseil National des Universités (1999-2003), member of recruiting committees, reviewer for the Italian Ministry of Scientific Research and the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada, member of the advisory board of a European project, reviewer for several French national research organisations.
Coeditor of several journal special issues (Information and Computation, Theoretical Computer Science, Logical Methods in Computer Science) of proceedings (ESOP'09, PLANX' 06), author of a book (Birkhäuser - Boston - 379 page) of two book chapters and of nearly 80 refereed articles.
More than 3000 citations recorded, excluding self-citations h-index = 25 : 25 publications with at least 25 citations each; g-index = 51 : the most cited 51 publications have at least 2601 (=51^2) citations. 
Joint keynote speaker of ICALP 2005 and ACM PPDP 2005; joint invited speaker of DBPL 2005 and XSym 2005 (and of further 7 international conferences). Chair or member of over 30 program, organisation, or steering committees of international events among which the reference events of different research areas: programming languages (POPL, ESOP, FoSSaCS), object-oriented languages (ECOOP), concurrency theory (CONCUR), XML language technologies (PLAN-X).
Developpement: principal investigator and responsible of the programming language CDuce (distribution available for Windows, Mac OSX on www.cduce.org et included in all main Linux distributions: Debian, Fedora, Mandriva, Ubuntu).
Several areas of research. Main contributions in the following domains: (1) object-oriented languages (typing of multi-methods, covariance and contravariance), (2) concurrent mobile calculi (Seal Calculus, Boxed Ambients), (3) transformation languages for XML documents (semantic subtyping, CDuce programming language), (4) foundation of web-services (“theory of contracts”, foundation of session types). Contributions to dependent type theory, module systems, language-level security, bioinformatics, definition and optimization of queries languages for native XML databases.
