http://english.is.cas.cn/ns/ue/201308/t20130822_108643.html
 [8-22]Mathematics and Physics Foundation for Digital Medicine in Virtual Environments 
 Title: Mathematics and Physics Foundation for Digital Medicine in Virtual EnvironmentsSpeaker: Hong Qin (State University of New York at Stony Brook)Time: 10:00, August 22th, 2013Venue: Room 337, 3rd Floor, Building #5, State Key Laboratory of Computer Science, Institute of Software, Chinese Academy of SciencesAbstract:Ever since mid-1980's, physics-based modeling and simulation has been ubiquitous in 3D interactive graphics, geometry information processing, digital engineering and entertainment, virtual reality, and visual computing with a large variety of applications. In technical essence, physics-based models and their dynamic behaviors are governed by physical laws in the form of Partial Differential Equations (PDEs) built upon the variational, energy-optimization modeling framework. In the first half of this presentation, I will overview the latest development of deformable models and their applications in shape modeling, simulation, and synthesis, with applications in computer animation, virtual reality, digital media, medical imaging, etc. Since late 1990's, we have witnessed a paradigm shift in visual computing from the model-driven methodology to new data-driven methods and computational techniques. Strongly inspired by this new paradigm and its latest development, I will advocate a new physics-based approach to shape analysis, data mining, and machine learning in the second half of this presentation. Our current research foci are to apply PDEs with initial or boundary value conditions to shape analysis, visual information processing, and medical imaging. Specific application areas include: virtual surgery simulation, shape feature extraction and classification, data segmentation and clustering, non-rigid registration for volumetric medical data analysis, geometry information processing, etc. After presenting thorough theoretical results and foundations, I will showcase a large variety of applications in computer science and engineering, and briefly discuss future research and development directions.Biography:Professor Hong Qin is a Full Professor of Computer Science in Department of Computer Science at State University of New York at Stony Brook (Stony Brook University), where he is also a member of SUNYSB's Center for Visual Computing. He received his B.S. (1986) degree and his M.S. degree (1989) in Computer Science from Peking University and his Ph.D. (1995) degree in Computer Science from the University of Toronto. During 1989-1990, he was a research scientist at North-China Institute of Computing Technologies. After he received his Ph.D. degree in Computer Science at the University of Toronto in September 1995, he was a research scientist at the University of Toronto, the University of Florida, then the State University of New York at Stony Brook. He received the Honor Student Award　from 1983 to 1986 and the Best Graduate Award in 1986 from Peking University. During his years at the University of Toronto (UofT), he received UofT Open Doctoral Fellowship. In 1997, Professor Qin was awarded NSF CAREER Award from the National Science Foundation (NSF). In September 2000, Professor Qin was awarded a newly-established NSF Information Technology Research (ITR) grant. In December 2000, Professor Qin received Honda Initiation Grant Award. Professor Qin served as the general Co-Chair　for Computer Graphics International 2005 (CGI'2005), and he was also the organizing committee chair for Stony Brook Graphics Week which includes Computer Graphics International 2005 (CGI'2005), Point-Based Graphics 2005 (PBG'2005), and Volume Graphics 2005 (VG'2005). Currently, he is an associate editor for IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics (IEEE TVCG), and he is also on the editorial board of The Visual Computer (International Journal of Computer Graphics). He is the Conference Co-Chair for ACM Solid and Physical Modeling Symposium 2007. 
