http://english.is.cas.cn/ns/ue/200806/t20080617_25748.html
 [6-19]Mobile Sensor Network under Extremely Low Connectivity: Plan B 
 Title: Mobile Sensor Network under Extremely Low Connectivity: Plan B
This talk centers on the Delay/Fault-Tolerant Mobile Sensor Network (DFT-MSN), in support of pervasive information gathering, which plays a key role in many military and civilian applications, ranging from environmental monitoring to pandemic alert and response. The mainstream sensor networking approach is to densely deploy a large number of small, highly portable, and inexpensive sensor nodes with low-power, short-range radio, forming a well connected wireless mesh network. This approach, however, does not work effectively in DFT-MSN, which has a few unique characteristics, including nodal mobility, sparse connectivity, delay tolerability, fault tolerability, and small nodal buffer space. I will present our recent research on DFT-MSN, including: Fundamentals and Principles: to gain full understanding of delay-tolerant mobile networks, and design a suite of innovative and efficient data delivery schemes, aiming to achieve high data delivery ratio in DFT-MSN with sparse network connectivity and small nodal buffer space; Protocol Design and Implementation: to devise a cross-layer data delivery protocol based on our established fundamentals and principles, and propose effective approaches that fine tune the protocol parameters for reducing the collision probability and improving energy efficiency; Mathematical Analysis and Modeling: to develop a generic queuing model, which will provide deep insight into the queuing characteristics of DFT-MSN and become a useful analytic tool not only for this project but also for future research and development of delay-tolerant mobile networks; Prototyping and Experimental Evaluation: create a large-scale DFT-MSN testbed to prototype and evaluate various existing and proposed data delivery schemes and to gain significant experimental knowledge and experience under diverse applications.
Ph.D Wu received his B.S. degree from Zhejiang University, China in 1996; his M.S. degree in Electrical & Computer Engineering and Ph.D. degree in Computer Science from the State University of New York at Buffalo in 2000 and 2002, respectively. Since then, he has been with the Center for Advanced Computer Studies (CACS), University of Louisiana at Lafayette, where he was promoted to Associate Professor in Summer 2007. His current research interests focus on wireless and mobile networks, including wireless LANs, mobile ad hoc networks, wireless sensor networks, the next generation wireless systems, and integrated heterogeneous wireless & wired networks. He received NSF CAREER Award in 2004. 
