http://www.is.cas.cn/ztzl2016/qnlhh2016/xsqy2016/201308/t20130819_3914816.html
 文章来源：  |  发布时间：2013-08-19  |  【打印】 【关闭】
 活动介绍： 题目:大数据时代用户行为理解主讲人:Dr. Guangzhong Sun       Dr. Xing Xie时间：2013年8月23日下午15：00地点：软件所5号楼4层中报告厅报告一: Build smart campus based on human behavioral data 　　摘要：In recent years, real-world data reflecting campus life has become widely available, including users' smart card records, mobile phone signal, GPS traces, data from kinds of camera, as well as data from several management information systems. As a result, we are ready to carry out real campus computing activities that lead to better and smarter campus. By better sensing and understanding the users in campus, we are more likely to design effective strategies and intelligent systems for improving life in campus areas. In this talk, I will present two kinds of our research and practical works on this direction: 1) data analysis and application based on campus card system; 2) data collection and analysis based on mobile phone sensing. 　　报告人：Dr. Guangzhong Sun is an associate professor in School of Computer Science and Technology, University of Science and Technology of China (USTC). He is a member of National High Performance Computing Center (Hefei). He got his Ph.D. in computer science at USTC in 2005. He worked as a visiting researcher in Microsoft Research Asia from October 2007 to August 2008 and from September 2010 to February 2011. He has published more than 40 papers, including papers in reputed journals and major international conferences. He is a member of ACM and IEEE. His research interests include pervasive computing, data processing, parallel computing, and combinatorial algorithms. 　　  报告二: User understanding from large scale human behavioral data.   　　摘要：With the rapid development of ubiquitous computing technologies, especially positioning, device and sensor technologies, a large scale of human behavioral data have become available. They reflect various aspects of human activities in the physical world, thus, connect users’ digital lives and their physical lives. Here, human behavioral data fall into several different domains, such as mobility data, interest data, and social media data. The growing availability of these behavioral data provides us an unprecedented opportunity to acquire individuals’ personal information as well as their digitalized behaviors. In this talk, I will present a number of our recent research works on this direction : 1) Influence of social behaviors on user mobility 2) user activity recommendation and prediction; 3) social graph de-anonymization; 4) human lifestyle analysis. 　　报告人：Dr. Xing Xie is currently a lead researcher in Microsoft Research Asia, and a guest Ph.D. advisor for the University of Science and Technology of China. He received his B.S. and Ph.D. degrees in Computer Science from the University of Science and Technology of China in 1996 and 2001, respectively. He joined Microsoft Research Asia in July 2001, working on spatial data mining, location based services, social networks and ubiquitous computing. During the past years, he has published over 140 referred journal and conference papers. He currently serves on the editorial boards of ACM Transactions on Intelligent Systems and Technology (TIST), Springer GeoInformatica, Journal of Location Based Services, and Communications of the China Computer Federation (CCCF). In recent years, he was involved in the program or organizing committees of over 70 conferences and workshops. He is a senior member of ACM, the IEEE, and China Computer Federation (CCF). 活动宣传软件所青联举办“大数据时代用户行为理解”专题报告会
