http://english.is.cas.cn/ns/ue/200906/t20090608_25793.html
 Title：The Future of Computer Science Speaker：John Hopcroft    (Cornell University)Time：4:00pm, June 17  Venue：Main Auditorium, 4th Floor, Building #5, ISCAS
Abstract： The merging of computing and communications and the availability of information in digital form has significantly changed the discipline of computer science. In the past the discipline was concerned with programming languages, compilers, operating systems and algorithms. Today we have become interested in search, networks and their growth, extracting information from digital sources and other tasks. This talk will focus on these new directions and the mathematical theory necessary to support these activities.
About the speaker：John E. Hopcroft is the IBM Professor of Engineering and Applied Mathematics in Computer Science at Cornell University. From January 1994 until June 2001, he was the Joseph Silbert Dean of Engineering. After receiving both his M.S. (1962) and Ph.D. (1964) in electrical engineering from Stanford University, he spent three years on the faculty of Princeton University. He joined the Cornell faculty in 1967, was named professor in 1972 and the Joseph C. Ford Professor of Computer Science in 1985. He served as chairman of the Department of Computer Science from 1987 to 1992 and was the associate dean for college affairs in 1993. An undergraduate alumnus of Seattle University, Hopcroft was honored with a Doctor of Humanities Degree, Honoris Causa, in 1990. Hopcrofts research centers on theoretical aspects of computing, especially analysis of algorithms, automata theory, and graph algorithms. 
He has coauthored four books on formal languages and algorithms with Jeffrey D. Ullman and Alfred V. Aho. His most recent work is on the study of information capture and access. 
He was honored with the A. M. Turing Award in 1986. He is a member of the National Academy of Sciences (NAS), the National Academy of Engineering (NAE) and a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences (AAAS), the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), and the Association of Computing Machinery (ACM). In 1992, he was appointed by President Bush to the National Science Board (NSB), which oversees the National Science Foundation (NSF), and served through May 1998. From 1995-98, Hopcroft served on the National Research Councils Commission on Physical Sciences, Mathematics, and Applications. 
In addition to these appointments, Hopcroft serves as a member of the Scientific Advisory Committee for the David and Lucile Packard Fellowships in Science and Engineering, the SIAM financial management committee, IIIT New Delhi advisory board, Microsofts technical advisory board for research Asia, the Engineering Advisory Board, Seattle University, and the program committee for Chile Millennium Science Initiative. 
