http://www.is.cas.cn/xshd2016/xsbg2016/201609/t20160905_4658516.html
 文章来源：  |  发布时间：2016-08-31  |  【打印】 【关闭】
 题目： People Analytics: Prospects and Opportunities 报告人：Prof. Hui Xiong时间：2016年8月31日 10:00地点：5号楼四层中会议室 报告摘要：      The big data trend has made its way to talent management. Indeed, the availability of large-scale human resources (HR) data provide unparalleled opportunities for business leaders to understand talent behaviors and generate useful talent knowledge, which in turn deliver intelligence for real-time decision making and effective people management at work. In this talk, I will introduce the state-of-the-art techniques used to evaluate the management performance, recruit and retain great people, enhance talent development, and demonstrate how these techniques are used at cutting-edge companies. In particular, I will explain how data analytic techniques can be used on people-related issues, such as recruiting, performance evaluation, talent retention, talent development, job matching, team management, and organizational stability analysis. Finally, I will present two case studies: 1) recruitment market trend analysis with sequential latent variable models, and 2) talent circle detection in job transition networks. 报告人简介：Dr. Hui Xiong is currently a Full Professor and Vice Chair in the Management Science and Information Systems Department, and the Director of Rutgers Center for Information Assurance at Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey, where he received a two-year early promotion/tenure (2009), the Rutgers University Board of Trustees Research Fellowship for Scholarly Excellence (2009), and the Best Research Paper Award at the 2011 IEEE International Conference on Data Mining (ICDM). He is also a Distinguished Visiting Professor (Grand Master Chair Professor) at the University of Science and Technology of China (USTC).       Dr. Xiong is a prominent researcher in the areas of business intelligence, data mining, big data, and geographic information systems (GIS). For his outstanding contributions to these areas, he was elected an ACM Distinguished Scientist in 2014. He has a distinguished academic record that includes 200+ referred papers in conference proceedings and journals, and an authoritative Encyclopedia of GIS (Springer). He is serving on the editorial boards of IEEE Transactions on knowledge and Data Engineering (TKDE), ACM Transactions on Knowledge Discovery from Data (TKDD), ACM Transactions on Management Information Systems (TMIS), and IEEE Transactions on Big Data. Also, he served as a Program Co-Chair of the Industrial and Government Track for the 18th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (KDD-2012), a Program Co-Chair for the IEEE 2013 International Conference on Data Mining (ICDM-2013), and a General Co-Chair for the IEEE 2015 International Conference on Data Mining (ICDM-2015).  
