http://english.is.cas.cn/ns/es/201305/t20130514_102018.html
Assoc. Prof. Qi Han paid a visit to the Institute of Software, Chinese Academy of Sciences (ISCAS) at the invitation of Technology Center of Software Engineering on 9th May, 2013. 
Qi Han is an associate professor of computer science in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the Colorado School of Mines. She directs the Pervasive Computing Systems (PeCS) research group. Her research interests include mobile sensing systems and applications, wireless and sensor networking, cyber-physical systems, and robotic sensor networks. She has also been active in interdisciplinary research where she has used wireless sensor networks for different applications such as monitoring of subsuface contaminant and development of energy efficient buildings. Her research has been funded by the National Science Foundation, Department of Energy through collaboration with the National Renewable Energy Laboratories (NREL), and the Petroleum Institute at Abu Dhabi, UAE.
Assoc. Prof. Qi Han delivered a report at ISCAS during her visit. The title of this report was “Detection and Tracking of Dynamic Amorphous Events in Wireless Sensor Networks”.
In recent years, wireless sensor networks (WSNs) have been applied and deployed in various fields such as environmental monitoring and emergency management. Using WSNs to detect and track events is an important and challenging issue. However, existing event detection and tracking algorithms are not able to identify and track the dynamic amorphous region events which may be created or destroyed through splitting and merging.
In this talk, Assoc. Prof. Qi Han introduced their advances in detecting and tracking amorphous events. She firstly describes DRAGON, an efficient amorphous event detection and tracking algorithm. Then, she presents an AWARE method which maintains the underlying communication structure adaptive to the dynamic amorphous events being tracked. She also shared her ongoing research projects in the areas of mobile WSNs, smartphone sensing, and robotic sensing with the audience. 
The audience had a heated discussion with Assoc. Prof. Qi Han at the end of the report.
