http://english.is.cas.cn/ns/ue/201207/t20120713_88925.html
Speaker: Calton Pu, Professor and John P. Imlay, Jr. Chair in Software School of Computer Science, Georgia Institute of Technology 
Venue: Lecture room, 3rd Floor, Building 5#, State Key Laboratory of Computer Science, Institute of Software, Chinese Academy of Sciences
ABSTRACT: Large N-Tier applications running in data centers and cloud environments have complex deployment requirements and dependencies that change frequently. The increasing complexity and scalability requirements of such applications demand automated configuration design, testing, deployment and monitoring of applications. In the Elba project, we have automated the n-tier application deployment, monitoring, and analysis phases through automated generation of benchmark scripts. Elba software tools include the Mulini generator, which creates deployment and monitoring scripts for several benchmarks such as RUBiS and RUBBoS. The scripts run the benchmark through many different configurations (from 3-tier to 5-tier, and several software packages such as MySQL and PostgreSQL), producing detailed data on many system resource metrics (e.g., CPU and network utilization). Statistical analysis of these metrics identifies the resource bottlenecks automatically, leading to automated adaptation. We will show detailed analyses of our data and discuss new research topics that can use the benchmark data accumulated and apply these techniques to other quality of service dimensions such as availability and power consumption. Concrete applications of this data include configuration planning and autonomic adaptation of N-tier applications.
Short Biography: Calton Pu was born in Taiwan and grew up in Brazil. He received his PhD from University of Washington in 1986 and served on the faculty of Columbia University and Oregon Graduate Institute. Currently, he is holding the position of Professor and John P. Imlay, Jr. Chair in Software at the College of Computing, Georgia Institute of Technology. He has worked on several projects in systems and database research. His contributions to systems research include program specialization and software feedback. His contributions to database research include extended transaction models and their implementation. His recent research has focused on automated system management in clouds (Elba project) and document quality, including spam processing. He has collaborated extensively with scientists and industry researchers. He has published more than 70 journal papers and book chapters, 200 conference and refereed workshop papers. He served on more than 120 program committees, including the co-PC chairs of SRDS'95, ICDE99, COOPIS02, SRDS03, DOA07, DEBS09, ICWS10, CollaborateCom'11, and co-general chair of ICDE'97, CIKM'01, ICDE06, DEPSA07, CEAS07, SCC08, CollaborateCom08, and World Service Congress11. 
