http://english.is.cas.cn/ns/ue/200806/t20080610_25744.html
 Title: A Course of Temporal Logic for B.Sc. and M.Sc. Students at Sofia University
Speaker: Dr. Dimitar P. Guelev, senior research fellow, Institute of Mathematics and Informatics, Bulgarian Academy of Sciences
This talk presents a course which was compiled by the speaker to be given to B.Sc. and M.Sc. students of mathematics and computer science who specialise in theoretical computer science at the Faculty of Mathematics and Informatics of Sofia University (FMI/SU, http://www.fmi.uni-sofia.bg/en/ )The course consists of an introductory part to be taken by B.Sc. students, and an advanced part for M.Sc. students. The M.Sc. programme in theoretical computer science at FMI is given by the Department of Mathematical Logic ( http://www.fmi.uni-sofia.bg/fmi/logic/main.en.html ).
The course is self-contained and complete with proofs. The material presented and the techniques used in proofs are chosen to avoid repetition of material taught in other courses given by the Department of Mathematical Logic, such as modal logic and automata on infinite objects.
The talk will give an overview of the course with some detail on the choice of technique for the presentation of the basic results.
Dr. Dimitar Guelev received both his M.Sc. (1994) and Ph.D. (2001) in mathematical logic from Sofia University, Bulgaria. He was a guest m. sc. student to the Institute of Logic, Language and Information of the University of Amsterdam (ILLC/UvA), and, during his ph.d. studies, was awarded 2 fellowships at the International Institute of Software Technology of the United Nations University (UNU/IIST) in Macau where his advisors were Prof. Zhou Chaochen and Dr. Dang Van Hung. Guelev has maintained productive co-operation with researchers from UNU/IIST ever since.
In 2000 Guelev joined the Section of Mathematical Logic of the Institute of Mathematics and Informatics of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences (IMI/BAS), where he is now a senior research fellow. In 2001-2004, while on leave from IMI/BAS, Guelev was the research fellow on the EPNeedDownload="true" SRC project "The Feature Construct in Programming and Specification Languages" with principal investigators Dr. Mark Ryan and Prof. Marta Kwiatkowska at the School of Computer Science of the University of Birmingham, UK.
Dimitar Guelevs research interests include temporal logic and, more generally, formal methods and theoretical computer science. 
