http://english.is.cas.cn/rh/rd/200711/t20071104_25631.html
 Technology Center of Software Engineering, which was formally set up in 1997 and formerly known as Object Technology Center, is a R&D constituent part of Institute of Software, Chinese Academy of Sciences. The center conducts research on Distributed Computing and Software Engineering, and has been pursuing many cutting edge works on the Distributed Objects and Components, Distributed Software Architectures and Middleware, Enterprise Application Integration, Service Oriented Computing, Mobile Computing, and Software Development Tools and Environments.
The center has a highly professional and efficient research team of about 110 people, including 5 research professors, 9 senior research staffs, 14 research staffs and about 80 post-doctors / PhD students/ master students.
In the period of last Five-year Plan, the center has undertaken dozens of projects funded by the National Natural Science Foundation, the National Basic Research Program (973), the National Hi-Tech Research and Development Program (863), the National Scientific and Technological Project and the CAS Knowledge Innovation Project. Fruitful results have been achieved including one National Science and Technology Progress Prize (Second Class) and one CAS Science and Technology Progress Prize (First Class). 
Most remarkably, a full-fledged software infrastructure - ONCE (Open Network Computing Environment) that supports the whole lifecycle of distributed software system, was developed and widely put in practice. ONCE platform is constituted by a suite of middleware including OnceAS for J2EE web application server, OnceMQ for message oriented communication, OnceTX for transaction processing, OnceDI for data integration, OnceXMLParser for XML parsing, OnceSOAPExpress for Web Services runtime, OnceUSIS for service invocation framework, OncePI for process integration and OncePortal for enterprise information portal. Till now, ONCE has been granted more than 50 software copyrights and widely used in areas including aerospace, aviation, nuclear power, automobiles, insurance and digital television. Many government departments such as the Organization Department of CPC Central Committee, the Ministry of Commerce and the Chinese Olympic Committee have incorporated ONCE in their projects and achieved good economic and social benefits.
The center has always been actively reinforcing the international cooperation with academy and industry in Europe and USA. In particular, the center has conducted joint PhD program with The Hong Kong Polytechnic University and The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology.
For the coming Eleventh Five-year Plan, the center will continue and deepen the research on distributed computing and software engineering, especially on engineering principles, methods, notations, infrastructures and tools for service oriented software systems, with the goal to provide a highly reliable and unified infrastructure for large and complex distributed software systems.
