http://english.is.cas.cn/ns/ue/200907/t20090713_25804.html
 Title：Lagrangian remote e-voting Speaker：Prof. Miroslaw Kutylowski (Wroclaw University of Technology) Time：10：00－11：30 am, Tuesday, July 14 Venue：Room 813, Building #5 Abstract： In the time of growing mobility of citizens, the costs of political elections is growing. This concerns in particular the countries of European Community, where mobility of working force generates problems for traditional election schemes. Many logistics problems could be solved if it would be possible to cast votes per Internet. However, providing technology that satisfies all necessary security requirements is one of the most challenging problems of information security in online communication. We present a resent proposal of remote e-voting scheme where local verification is non-transferable and secures strongly against disclosure of votes and coercion. (The topic is interesting in the sense that it leaves a lot of room for further research leading to engineering works and practical experience.) About the speaker： Miroslaw Kutylowski is a full professor at Wroclaw University of Technology, Institute of Mathematics and Computer Science. He received PhD and habilitation degrees from University of Wroclaw. In the past, he was Alexander von Humboldt Fellow in Darmstadt (Germany), Hochschuldozent in Paderborn (Germany), professor at Wroclaw University and Adam Mickiewicz University (Poznan, Poland). He is a member of Research Center for Legal and Economic Issues of Electronic Communication in Wroclaw. He served as an expert in legislative works concerning e-society, in particular as an expert for Polish Government. Research activities of Miroslaw Kutylowski cover among others: - anonymous communication protocols, - electronic voting protocols, - malicious cryptography, - fault attacks on cryptographic hardware, - digital signatures, - key management for ad hoc networks, - authentication for weak devices, - self organization protocols for ad hoc networks, - robustness against active adversaries in ad hoc networks. 
