http://english.is.cas.cn/ns/ue/200907/t20090713_25805.html
 [7-14]A New Era after the Convergence of Network Centric and Data Centric Computing 
 Title：A New Era after the Convergence of Network Centric and Data Centric Computing Speaker：Professor David H.C. Du (University of Minnesota) Time：4:00 pm, Tuesday, July 14Venue：Room 815, Building #5  Abstract： The Internet today has grown to an enormously large scale. Devices large and small are connected globally from anywhere on the earth. Therefore, we can argue that we are in a network centric era. With the rapid advancement of technology, We have sensors and embedded processors with high computing power and large storage capacity. These devices are designed to improve our life by monitoring our environment, collecting critical data, and executing special instructions. Many imaging, audio and video data are converted from analog to digital. As a result, unprecedented amount of data is collected by these devices and are available via Internet. How to manage and look for the desired information becomes a great challenge. In this talk, we will examine the challenges in the convergence of both network centric and data centric computing. At the same time, many emerging applications like service-oriented, security and real-time demand much better support than the current Internet can offer. How the future Internet should look like is still undetermined. In this talk, we will present a vision of a content addressable future Internet that requires integrating the capabilities of networking with storage devices. We believe an object-oriented intelligent storage is an essential part of the solution to this new computing and communication environment. We will also present a number of research projects that are currently carried out in Digital technology center Intelligent Storage Consortium (DISC) at University of Minnesota. These projects include data deduplication, power management in data centers, long-term data preservation, data/storage security/privacy, and flash memory based solid state drives. 
About the speaker： Dr. Du has a wide range of research expertise including multimedia computing, mass storage systems, high-speed networking, sensor networks, cyber security, high-performance file systems and I/O, database design, and CAD for VLSI circuits. He has authored and co-authored over 200 technical papers including 95 referred journal publications in these research areas. Dr. Du is an IEEE Fellow (since 1998) and a Fellow of the Minnesota Supercomputer Institute. He is currently serving on the Editorial Boards of several international journals. He has also served as Conference Chair and Program Committee Chair for several major conferences in multimedia, networking, database and security areas. Currently he is the General Chair of the 30th IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (2009) and Program Committee Co-Chair for the 37th International Conference on Parallel Processing (2009). He has had research grants from many federal funding agencies including NSF, DARPA, ONR, and DOE. He has a strong tie with many industrial researchers and has collaborated with a number of companies including IBM, Intel, Cisco, Symantec, Seagate, Sun Microsystems, Honeywell, etc. 
