http://www.is.cas.cn/xshd2016/xsbg2016/201409/t20140917_4205134.html
 文章来源：  |  发布时间：2014-09-16  |  【打印】 【关闭】
 报告人：Chenyang Lu (吕晨阳）　　   Professor of Computer Science and Engineering at Washington University in St. Louis报告题目：RT-Xen: Real-Time Virtualization for Embedded Systems时间：9月18日 上午9:30地点：五号楼708室RT-Xen: Real-Time Virtualization for Embedded SystemsChenyang LuCyber-Physical Systems LaboratoryWashington University in St. Louishttp://www.cse.wustl.edu/~luRecent years have witnessed increasing demand of running real-time embedded applications on virtualized platforms. However, existing virtualization platforms cannot provide real-time performance guarantees to virtual machines. This talk will introduce RT-Xen, a real-time virtual machine scheduling framework in the Xen hypervisor. Built based on compositional scheduling theory, RT-Xen realizes a suite of real-time schedulers including global and partitioned multi-core scheduling, fixed and dynamic priority, and different resource management schemes. RT-Xen achieves significant improvement in real-time performance over Xen’s existing credit scheduler and explores the tradeoff in real-time scheduler design in virtualized platforms. RT-Xen has been released as open-source software at https://sites.google.com/site/realtimexen/. Work is underway to incorporate RT-Xen in the Xen distribution. RT-Xen represents a promising step toward real-time virtualization for a broad range of embedded applications from automotive computing to Internet of Things.Bio: Chenyang Lu is a Professor of Computer Science and Engineering at Washington University in St. Louis. Professor Lu is Editor-in-Chief of ACM Transactions on Sensor Networks, Area Editor of IEEE Internet of Things Journal, and Associate Editor of Real-Time Systems. He also chaired premier conferences such as IEEE Real-Time Systems Symposium (RTSS), ACM/IEEE International Conference on Cyber-Physical Systems (ICCPS) and ACM Conference on Embedded Networked Sensor Systems (SenSys). Professor Lu is the author and co-author of over 100 research papers with over 12,000 citations and an h-index of 50. He received the Ph.D. degree from University of Virginia in 2001, the M.S. degree from Institute of Software, Chinese Academy of Sciences, in 1997, and the B.S. degree from University of Science and Technology of China in 1995, all in computer science. His research interests include real-time systems, wireless sensor networks, cyber-physical systems and Internet of Things.
