http://english.is.cas.cn/ns/ue/200806/t20080618_25749.html
An erupting volcano, like Mount St. Helens, provides a challenging environment to examine and advance sensor network technology. Various geophysical and geochemical sensors have been applied to study the various complex phenomenons before or after eruptions (e.g., magma movements, lava dome collapse, ash fall, gas emission, pyroclastic flow, mud flow, landslide, etc). The crater at Mount St. Helens is a dynamic 3-dimensional communication environment, with batteries as the only reliable energy source. To determine an volcano events, it requires the correlation analysis among different sensors. In addition, the sensors can be destroyed occasionally by the eruption. Hence, an in-situ network shall be self-organizing and self-healing, and have the capability to optimize resources usage according to envionment situations and network situations, e.g., situation awareness. 
In this talk, Dr. WenZhan Song, the PI of a NASA sensor web project for volcano monitoring, will talk about the motivation, expectation, system design and research challenges of a sensor network for volcano monitoring. He will also briefly present his several selected research works in the past, such as topology control, localized TDMA MAC etc.
Dr. WenZhan Song is an assistant professor in computer science at Washington State University - Vancouver, and the PI of the Sensorweb Research Laboratory. 
Dr. Songs research spans distributed systems, wireless networks, sensor networks, peer-to-peer content networks and algorithm design. His research has received over $2 million funding support from NASA, USGS and WSU. Dr. Song has published 2 book chapters and over 30 papers in premium conferences (e.g., MOBICOM, INFOCOM, MOBIHOC) and journals (e.g., TPDS, JPDC, MONET, WINET, TOSN). His research on wireless network topology management was selected as one of the three best papers at the ACM MobiCom 2005. He is also a receipt of Best Oversea Chinese Student award from China Ministry of Education in 2004. 
Dr. Song is currently leading an advanced NASA sensor web research project - OASIS (Optimized Autonomous Space In-Situ Sensorweb), which involves computer cientists, earth scientists and space scientists from Washington State University, NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory and USGS Cascades Volcano Obseratory.
