http://english.is.cas.cn/ns/ue/201206/t20120608_86924.html
Speaker: Dr. Lei Shi, Institute of Software, Chinese Academy of Sciences
Venue: Lecture room, 3rd Floor, Building 5#, State Key Laboratory of Computer Science, Institute of Software, Chinese Academy of Sciences
Information Visualization (InfoVis) is an interdisciplinary research area joining graphics design, cognitive science, human-computer interaction, data analytics techniques and software system research. In this talk, I will cover my recent works in InfoVis, from the classical node-link graph visualization to the latest unstructured text visual analytics and spatiotemporal data visualization under IBM's smarter planet strategy. I will introduce the whole lifecycle to create each of the visualization, encompassing the data processing, visual mapping, representation and user interactions. These visualizations are showcased in several real-world usage scenarios under the umbrella of analytics systems in the areas/industries such as telecom, healthcare, enterprise content management and social data analysis. Some of the presented visualizations have been part of IBM offerings (e.g. products and solutions), and are being used by business users. Finally I will conclude with some future outlooks in the InfoVis research.
Lei Shi will take a position of associate research professor in the State Key Laboratory of Computer Science, Institute of Software, Chinese Academic of Science, from April 12, 2012. Previously, he is a research staff member and research manager at IBM Research - China, where he manages the visual analytics team. He holds B.S., M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from Department of Computer Science and Technology, Tsinghua University. His research interests span Information Visualization, Visual Analytics, Network Science and Networked Systems. He has published 30+ papers in refereed conferences and journals. He is the recipient of IBM Research Accomplishment Award on "Visual Analytics" and the VAST Challenge Award in 2010. 
