http://english.is.cas.cn/ns/ue/200912/t20091204_48131.html
Brief overview of the School of ITEE and the DKE and SSE research groups
The School of Information Technology and Electrical Engineering (ITEE) at The University of Queensland (UQ) covers a wide range of disciplines in the area of information and communication technology, including computer science, information systems, telecommunications, and software, systems, and electrical engineering.  This presentation will provide a brief overview of the School's teaching and research activities, focusing on the Data & Knowledge Engineering (DKE) and Systems & Software Engineering (SSE) research groups.
Paul Strooper is a Professor in the School of ITEE at The University of Queensland.  He received the BMath and MMath degrees in Computer Science from the University of Waterloo, and the PhD degree in Computer Science in 1990 from the University of Victoria.  His main research interest is Software Engineering, especially software specification, verification, and testing. He has had substantial interaction with industry through collaborative research projects, training and consultation in the area of software verification and validation.  He was one of the program co-chairs for the 2002 Asia-Pacific Software Engineering Conference (APSEC), the program chair for the 2004 and 2005 Australian Software Engineering Conferences (ASWEC), and is the general chair for ASWEC 2009.  He is a member of the editorial board of the IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering, the Journal of Software Testing, Verification and Reliability, and a member of the Steering Committees for the APSEC and ASWEC conferences.
Professor Xiaofang Zhou is a Professor of Computer Science at the University of Queensland. He is the Head of the Data and Knowledge Engineering Research Division at UQ, a Chief Investigator of Australian Research Council (ARC) Centre of Excellence in Bioinformatics, and the Convenor and Director of ARC Research Network in Enterprise Information Infrastructure (a major national research collaboration initiative in Australia).  Xiaofang received his BSc and MSc degrees in Computer Science from Nanjing University, China, and PhD in Computer Science from the University of Queensland. Before joining UQ in 1999, he worked as a researcher in Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO), leading its Spatial Information Systems group. His research focus is to find effective and efficient solutions for managing, integrating and analyzing very large amount of complex data for business, scientific and personal applications. He has been working in the area of spatial and multimedia databases, data quality, high performance query processing, Web information systems and bioinformatics, co-authored over 160 research papers with many published in top journals and conferences such as SIGMOD, VLDB, ICDE, ACM Multimedia, The VLDB Journal, ACM Transactions and IEEE Transactions. He was the Program Committee Chair of IFIP Conference on Visual Databases (VDB 2002), Australasian Database Conferences (ADC 2002 and 2003), International Conference on Web Information Systems Engineering (WISE 2004), Asia Pacific Web Conferences (APWeb 2003 and 2006), International Conference on Databases Systems for Advanced Applications (DASFAA 2009). He has been on the program committees of over 100 international conferences, including SIGMOD, VLDB, ICDE and WWW. Currently he is an Associate Editor of The VLDB Journal, IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, World Wide Web Journal, Information Processing Letters, Encyclopedia of Database Systems and Web Information System Engineering book series by Springer.
This talk will first give a general introduction to ISCAS, and then describes the establishment of the Joint Lab for Data and Software Engineering Research (DSER). Finally, will present the academic activities supported by the joint lab that have been conducted so far.
Zhiming Ding is a professor of Institute of Software, ChineseAcademy of Sciences. His main research interests include database systems, mobile computing, spatial-temporal data mining, and information retrieval. He used to work in Institute of Scientific & Technical Information, Ministry of Communications of China, SINOCHEM, and FernUniversität in Hagen, Germany, as a research staff member. He is also the members of the China Computer Federation Database Technical Committee (CCF DBTC) and the China Computer Federation Electronic Government and Office Automation Technical Committee (CCF EGOATC). He was awarded National Silver Prize for Excellent Achievement in Science and Technology Information by the Chinese Science and Technology Committee in 1996 and Achievement Award for Beijing’s Science and Technology Progress by the Beijing municipal government in 2001 respectively. He owns two invention patents, and has published 2 books and about 60 papers in academic journals and conferences.
In real world situations, explanations for the same observations may be different depending on perceptions or contexts. They may change with time especially when concept drift occurs in data stream. This phenomenon incurs ambiguities. It is useful if an algorithm can learn to reflect ambiguities and select the best decision according to context or situation. Based on this viewpoint, we study the problem of deriving ambiguous decision trees from data streams to cope with concept drift. In this talk, we present a method called ambiguous CVFDT (aCVFDT), which integrates ambiguities into traditional CVFDT algorithm by exploring multiple options at each node whenever a node is to be split. When aCVFDT is used to make class predictions, it is guaranteed that the best and newest knowledge is used. When old concepts recur, aCVFDT can immediately relearn them by using the corresponding options recorded at each node. In our experiments, hyperplane problem and two benchmark problems from the UCI KDD Archive, namely Network Intrusion and Forest CoverType, are used to validate the performance of aCVFDT. The experimental results show that aCVFDT obtains significantly improved results over traditional CVFDT.
Dr Xue Li is an Associate Professor in the School of Information Technology and Electrical Engineering at University of Queensland, Australia. He graduated in Computer Software from ChongqingUniversity in 1982, MSc in computer Science from University of Queensland in 1990. He was a lecturer in Department of Computing at the Queensland University of Technology (QUT), 1990-1998. He obtained the PhD degree in Information Systems from QUT in 1997. He worked as a senior lecturer in University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia, 1998-2001. Dr Xue Li's major areas of research interests and expertise include: Data Mining, Database Systems, and Intelligent Web Information Systems. He is a founder and the chair of the Steering Committee of the International Conference of ADMA (Advanced Data Mining and Applications).
Due to increasing system decentralization, component heterogeneity, and interface complexities, many trustworthiness challenges become more and more complicated and intertwined. Moreover, there is a lack of common understanding of software trustworthiness and its related development methodology. This talk will introduce and report preliminary results from an ongoing research project at iTechs, collaborated among 6 international research units, which aims at exploring theories and methods for enhancing existing software process techniques for trustworthy software development. 
Ye Yang is an Associate Professor in the Institute of Software at the ChineseAcademy of Sciences (ISCAS). She received her B.S. degrees in both Computer Science and Economics from PekingUniversity in 1994, and her M.S. in Computer Science from ISCAS in 1998, and her Ph.D. in Computer Science from USC in 2006. Her research interests include software process, software measurement and metrics, software engineering cost modeling, software product lines, requirement engineering, and empirical software engineering methods
Test Mining Near-duplicate Graph for Cluster-based Reranking of Web Video Search Results
Heng Tao Shen : Associate Professor, DKE, School of ITEE, UQ
As the mainstream video content is moving to the Web, finding relevant videos from the Web has been in an urgent demand. Most available Web video search engines perform text-based search, which often return some noisy results on the top of the ranking list. Recently, video search reranking has been an effective mechanism to improve the initial text-based ranking list by incorporating visual consistency among the result videos. While existing methods attempt to rerank all the individual result videos, they suffer from several drawbacks. In this paper, we propose a new video reranking paradigm called cluster-based video reranking (CVR). The idea is to first construct a video near-duplicate graph representing the visual similarity relationship among videos, followed by identifying the near-duplicate clusters from the video near-duplicate graph, then rank the obtained near-duplicate clusters based on cluster properties and inter-cluster links, and finally for each ranked cluster a representative video is selected and returned. Comparing to existing methods, the new CVR ranks clusters and exhibits several advantages, including superior reranking by utilizing more reliable cluster properties, fast reranking on a small number of clusters, diverse and representative results. Particularly, we formulate the near-duplicate cluster identification as a novel maximal cohesive subgraph mining problem. By leveraging the designed cluster scoring properties indicating cluster's importance and quality, random walk is applied over the near-duplicate cluster graph to rank clusters. An extensive evaluation study proves the novelty and superiority of our proposals over existing methods.
Heng Tao Shen is an Associate Professor (Reader) in School of ITEE at The University of Queensland. He obtained his BSc (with 1st class Honours) and PhD from Department of Computer Science, National University of Singapore in 2000 and 2004 respectively, then joined The University of Queensland as a Lecturer in June 2004 and Senior Lecturer in March 2007. His research interests include Multimedia/Mobile/Web Search, Database Management, P2P/Cloud Computing, etc. Heng Tao has published and served on program committees in most prestigious international publication venues of interests, such as ACM SIGMOD, ACM Multimedia, VLDB, ICDE, etc.
Video search has become a compelling research topic in recent years, due to the proliferation of online video uploading/sharing sites and the exponential explosion of video data. In this demonstration, we showcase a Web-based integrated platform, UQLIPS, which performs online detection of near-duplicate occurrences over continuous video streams, as well as retrieval of near-duplicate clips from segmented video collections. Our method to detect relevant sub-sequences in a streaming video is characterized by a novel one-dimensional distance trajectory capturing the changes of consecutive frames. Such a trajectory is further represented by a sequence of compact signatures. An effective similarity measure is devised to compare the trajectory with multiple query videos.
Dr. Zi Helen Huang is a Postdoctoral Research Fellow in School of ITEE, The University of Queensland. She received her BSc degree from Department of Computer Science, Tsinghua University, China, and her PhD in Computer Science from School of ITEE, The University of Queensland. Dr. Huang's research interests include multimedia search, knowledge discovery, and bioinformatics. Her publications have appeared in many prestigious venues including ACM Multimedia, ACM SIGMOD, ACM Transactions on Information Systems, VLDB Journals, IEEE Transactions on Multimedia, IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, etc.
Preliminary Experience of Applying Metamorphic Testing in the Domain of Compiler
Traditional software testing methods need to construct explicit expected test output or depend on reference systems to determine test results, which may make the testing inefficient or infeasible. Metamorphic testing (MT) method validates software systems via their metamorphic properties, can avoid the above disadvantage of traditional methods, and hence is deemed as a useful complement to the latter. In this report, we will first briefly introduce principle and research advances of MT, and then we will introduce our endeavor and preliminary experience in applying metamorphic testing for compiler which is a special software system with programs as its inputs. We will introduce our considerations of possible metamorphic properties for compiler, an automatic MT method for compiler which can automatically generate equivalent test programs through three different ways, the corresponding prototype tool, and preliminary experiments and results.
Qiuming Tao is an assistant researcher. He received Ph.D. degree from ISCAS in July this year. His research interests include software testing, program analysis, and compilation technology.
Usability is an important quality attribute to be considered during the design and development of software process descriptions (SPDs). The demand for usable SPDs is high but in practice, SPDs suffer from usability problems. As a result, SPDs are often difficult to understand and enact by process performers. In this research, we propose a framework for evaluating the usability of SPDs based on a set of usability factors. We have employed a multi-method research approach to support the investigation of usability factors, to assess the applicability of some existing usability evaluation methods (UEMs) for SPDs, and to evaluate two selected UEMs in a controlled experiment. The information and experience we gained throughout these studies have been used to formulate the proposed framework. We argue that the proposed framework provides the groundwork to create an engineering discipline for SPD quality assurance that can be integrated in the software engineering process lifecycle.
Mohd Naz'ri Mahrin is a PhD student in the School of ITEE at The University of Queensland. He received the BSc and MSc degrees in Computer Science from The Universiti Teknologi Malaysia and then work as an academic staff at the same university. His main research interest is Software Engineering Process, especially software process description, process quality assurance, and process implementation and change. For his PhD research, he is focusing on evaluating the usability of software process descriptions. In Malaysia, other than his routine job with the university, he also involves in supporting Malaysian software industries in software process improvement initiative by tag along with Malaysia National ICT Initiative under capability and capacity development programme.
Research of Data Mining Technology Based on Network-Constrained Moving Objects in Dynamic Transportation Network
Data mining technology is becoming increasingly important in dynamic transportation network, which can be used to manage and regulate the traffic condition. Since there exist many shortcomings in current researches of data mining technology on moving objects, the data mining methods based on network-constrained moving objects in dynamic transportation network is lack of effective methods. In this talk, we will introduce several data mining methods on moving objects and their drawbacks in the traffic condition. Furthermore, we will show some ideas on this issue.
Limin GUO, she has received her bachelor’s degree from Huazhong University of Science and Technology in 2005. And she is now a second year Ph. D. candidate student in the Institute of Software, ChineseAcademy of Sciences. She has taken part in many mobile database projects which are supported by the National Science Foundation of China (NSFC), including Location Dependent Data, Moving Object Data, Parallel Distributed Database and so on. Her current research interests mainly focus on database research and implementation, and data mining based on network-constrained moving objects database.
Software development using formal specifications has to be consistently maintained due to the change of user requirement and design. However, specification maintenance suffers from the difficulty of property verification. This is not only because the changing of system specification requires the re-proof of its properties, but also because of the lack of automated tool support. This is especially the case when the system is large and complicated. We present an approach to partially verify a given property after system changes based on refactoring rules in Object-Z. We show how a property can be disassembled and distributed to each class to decrease the verification effort. We will demonstrate why the approach is more efficient and beneficial than the traditional methods.　 
Fu Zheng is a PhD student in the School of ITEE at The University of Queensland.  He received the BSc and MSc degrees in Computer Science from the Griffith College Dublin (2005) and the University of York (2007) respectively. His main research interest is formal specification and verification, theorem proving, Z and Object-Z.
TCN is an important real-time communication protocol which is widely used in high-speed trains. This protocol can handle large amounts of data within a very short time. Testing such a protocol needs respond received protocol data units as soon as possible (typically within 100μs). This makes a big challenge for TTCN-3 testing infrastructure since almost all test cases for TCN protocol are written in TTCN-3. This talk shows several key design decisions to implement an effective TTCN-3 testing execution system(namely TONE), including type/value system, message encoding/decoding, memory management, component scheduling, etc. TONE is also applicable for any reactive real-time systems.
Xue Yunzhi received his Ph.D. from Institute of Software, ChineseAcademy of Sciences in 2009. He is interested in adaptive compilation and performance auto-tuning on CMPs, and automated software testing, in particular for communication protocols and embedded systems. He is an assistant professor in Lab for National Fundamental Software of ISCAS.
