http://www.is.cas.cn//xshd2016/xsbg2016/201606/t20160614_4621036.html
[6-14] 软件所青年联合会第40期活动--The Good, the Bad and the Ugly: Uncovering Novel Opportunities of Data Science----软件研究所
 [6-14] 软件所青年联合会第40期活动--The Good, the Bad and the Ugly: Uncovering Novel Opportunities of Data Science
 文章来源：  |  发布时间：2016-06-13  |  【打印】 【关闭】
 　　The Good, the Bad and the Ugly: Uncovering Novel Opportunities of Data Science 　　 　　报告人：Prof. Huan Liu 　　时间：2016年6月14日  10:00 　　地点：5号楼四层中会议室 　　 　　报告摘要: 　　    Big data is ubiquitous and becomes bigger, and challenges traditional data mining and machine learning methods.  Social media is a new source of data that is significantly different from conventional ones. Social media data is mostly user generated, and is big, linked, and heterogeneous. We present the good, the bad and the ugly associated with the multi-faceted social media data, exemplify the importance of data reduction and inferring invisible information with real-world examples, and illuminate new opportunities of developing novel algorithms and tools for data mining and machine learning.  In our endeavor of taming the bad and the ugly with the help of the good, we deepen our understanding of ever growing and evolving data and generate innovative solutions with interdisciplinary, collaborative research. 　　报告人简介: 　　    Dr. Huan Liu is a professor of Computer Science and Engineering at Arizona State University. He obtained his Ph.D. in Computer Science at University of Southern California. He was recognized for excellence in teaching and research in Computer Science and Engineering at Arizona State University. His research interests are in data mining, machine learning, social computing, and artificial intelligence, investigating problems that arise in real-world applications with high-dimensional data of disparate forms. His well-cited publications include books, book chapters, encyclopedia entries as well as conference and journal papers. He serves on journal editorial/advisory boards and numerous conference program committees. He is a Fellow of IEEE and a member of several professional societies. 　　                    　　　　　　
