http://english.is.cas.cn/ns/ue/201201/t20120104_80552.html
 [1-5]Dynamic Quality-aware Configuration and Optimization of Service Monitoring Systems 
Title: Dynamic Quality-aware Configuration and Optimization of Service Monitoring Systems 
Venue: Lecture room, the 3rd Floor, Building 5, State Key Laboratory of Computer Science, Institute of Software, Chinese Academy of Sciences
Service monitoring is needed for meeting regulatory requirements and for verifying compliance to Service Level Agreements (SLAs). As such, monitoring is an essential part of service-based software systems. However, service monitoring comes with a cost, including impacts on the quality of the monitored services and systems. To deliver the best value to the service provider, it is important to strike the right balance between meeting monitoring requirements and reducing monitoring impacts, even as the system and its requirements change. To achieve this balance, this talk introduces a novel approach to the dynamic quality-aware configuration and optimization of service monitoring systems. It includes an automated run-time measurement and management system and an efficient (re)optimization algorithm for (re)configuring a suite of service monitors. A range of experiments have been conducted, which shows that our run-time optimization delivers significant benefits in terms of meeting monitoring requirements and minimizing monitoring impacts, and our optimization algorithm is fast enough to re-optimize large-scale monitoring systems at run-time.
Professor Jun Han received his B.Eng. and M.Eng. degrees in Computer Science and Engineering from Beijing University of Science and Technology, and his Ph.D. degree in Computer Science from the University of Queensland (Australia). Since July 2003, he has been Professor of Software Engineering in the Faculty of Information and Communication Technologies at Swinburne University of Technology (Australia), where he leads research into Software Systems Engineering. Professor Han is also a research leader with Australia's Cooperative Research Centre in Smart Services (Smart Services CRC) and Cooperative Research Centre in Advanced Automotive Technology (AutoCRC). Prior to joining Swinburne, he held academic positions at Monash University (Australia) and the University of Queensland. 
Professor Han has published over 150 refereed research papers in international journals and conferences. His research has been supported by the Australian Research Council, Australia’s national cooperative research centres (CRCs), and other government and industry organisations.  His current research interests include software architecture, software system qualities, adaptive and context-aware software systems, services engineering and management, and cloud computing.
