http://english.is.cas.cn/ns/ue/201102/t20110224_65404.html
Location：Lecture room, Lab for Computer Science, Level 3 Building #5, Institute of Software, CAS
Two-sided send/receive based communication, where a receiver has to explicitly receive data sent by the sender, has been the most prominent communication model for several decades. However, recent advancements in machine architectures and requirements from applications have demonstrated a need for asynchronous one-sided communication. One-sided communication models such as Global Arrays (GA), MPI-2/MPI-3 RMA and partitioned global address space (PGAS), have addressed the requirements of many applications such as NWChem by allowing them asynchronous access to globally distributed data. Despite their recent popularity, current one-sided communication models fall short in a number of areas, including productivity, performance, scalability and fault tolerance. In this talk, I'll point out some of the successes and failures of each of the different models, and our recent efforts to consolidate the successes of all the models into a single unified framework.
Dr. Pavan Balaji holds a joint appointment as a Computer Scientist at the Argonne National Laboratory and as a research fellow of the Computation Institute at the University of Chicago. He had received his Ph.D. from the Computer Science and Engineering department at the Ohio State University. His research interests include high-speed interconnects, efficient protocol stacks, parallel programming models and middleware for communication and I/O, and job scheduling and resource management. He has more than 75 publicationsin these areas and has delivered nearly 100 talks and tutorials at various conferences and research institutes. He has received several awards for his research activities including an Outstanding Researcher award at the Ohio State University, the Director's Technical Achievement award at Los Alamos National Laboratory, and several best paper and other awards. Dr. Balaji has also served as a chairman or editor in more than 20 journals, conferences and workshops including JHPCA, ICPP, IEEE Micro, Hot Interconnects, P2S2 workshop, ICCCN, and CCGrid, and as a technical program committee member in numerous conferences and workshops. He is a member of the IEEE and ACM. More details about Dr. Balaji are available at http://www.mcs.anl.gov/~balaji. 
