http://english.is.cas.cn/ns/ue/201105/t20110524_70232.html
 [5-26]Real-Time Scheduling for Wireless Control Networks: a WirelessHART Case Study 
Title: Real-Time Scheduling for Wireless Control Networks: a WirelessHART Case Study
WirelessHART is an industrial standard for wireless process monitoring and control. Real-time transmission scheduling is critical for meeting the stringent real-time communication requirements of process control over wireless sensor-actuator networks. Efficient end-to-end delay analysis for periodic data flows enables online admission test and workload adaptation under dynamic conditions. This talk presents the first efficient end-to-end delay analysis for periodic data flows in WirelessHART networks. We identify the inherent similarities and differences between wireless transmission scheduling and traditional real-time processor scheduling. We then map the real-time transmission scheduling in a WirelessHART network to traditional real-time multiprocessor scheduling. Leveraging response time analysis for multiprocessor scheduling, we propose a novel method for the end-to-end delay analysis of fixed-priority real-time ﬂows in a WirelessHART network. Simulations based on the real network topologies of a physical testbed demonstrate the efﬁcacy of our end-to-end delay analysis in terms of acceptance ratio under various ﬁxed-priority scheduling policies. This work represents a promising step towards a real-time scheduling theory for wireless control systems.
Chenyang Lu is a Professor of Computer Science and Engineering at Washington University. Professor Lu is the author and co-author of more than 100 research publications and a recipient of an US NSF CAREER Award in 2005. An Associate Editor of ACM Transactions on Sensor Networks and Journal of Real-Time Systems, Professor Lu also served as Program and General Chair of IEEE Real-Time and Embedded Technology and Applications Symposium (RTAS) in 2008 and 2009, Program Chair of International Conference on Principles of Distributed Systems (OPODIS) in 2010, and will serve as Program Chair of International Conference on Body-Area Networks (BodyNets) in 2011 and IEEE Real-Time Systems Symposium (RTSS) in 2012. He received the Ph.D. degree from University of Virginia in 2001, the M.S. degree from Institute of
Software, Chinese Academy of Sciences in 1997, and the B.S. degree from University of Science and Technology of China in 1995, all in computer science. His research interests include real-time embedded systems, wireless sensor networks, cyber-physical systems, and body-area networks. 
