http://english.is.cas.cn/ns/ue/200911/t20091116_47311.html
 [11-16]Model-based tool-chain for the design and analysis of embedded hybrid systems 
 Title：Model-based tool-chain for the design and analysis of embedded hybrid systemsSpeaker：T. John KooTime：10：30am, Monday，November 16thVenue：Lecture Room 334, State Key Lab of Computer Science, Level 3 Building #5Abstract：Embedded systems are a key enabling technology for the recent vast increase in functionality of a huge list of engineering applications such as avionics, automotive electronics, manufacturing systems, power networks, medical devices and transportation systems. Since these aforementioned embedded systems are special-purpose computing systems designed to perform real-time computation for interacting with the surrounding environment, the design of high-confidence embedded systems requires a deeper understanding on the nature of interactions between the computational and physical worlds. By mixing continuous and discrete models of computations, hybrid systems have been shown to be useful system-level models for the embedded systems. In this talk, we will introduce various hybrid system models and related theoretical and computational issues. Furthermore, we will focus on the development of a model-based toolchain developed for the design and analysis of embedded hybrid systems. 
Biography：T.  John Koo received the Ph.D degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of California at Berkeley in 2000, and the M.Phil. degree in Information Engineering degree in Electronic Engineering from the Chinese University of Hong Kong in 1994. He is Professor and Director of the Center for Embedded Software Systems, Shenzhen Institute of Advanced Technology (SIAT), Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS). From 2006 to 2009, he was the Co-Director of the Tsinghua-STU Joint Laboratory on Future Internet Technologies and the Research Director of the Ministry of Education National Key Laboratory at Shantou University in China. He received the NSF Faculty Early CAEER Development Award in 2005. His research interests include Embedded Software, Hybrid Systems, Nonlinear Control, and Robotics.http://www.siat.ac.cn 
