http://english.is.cas.cn/ns/ue/201209/t20120919_91191.html
Venue: Lecture Room, 3rd Floor, Building 5#, State Key Laboratory of Computer Science, Institute of Software, Chinese Academy of Sciences 
With the emergence of Cloud Computing and maturity of Service Oriented Architecture (SOA), the Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) delivery model has gained popularity, due to its advantages in such aspects as lower start-up, reduced operating costs and quicker time to market. An SaaS vendor owns and takes the responsibility of maintaining a single application for multiple clients/tenants who may have similar but also varying requirements. Business process modelling (BPM) approaches can be used to package service offerings to meet these varying requirements on a shared basis. However, the customization of these business processes to achieve runtime sharing and variability can be challenging. In this talk we discuss the challenges arising from single-instance multi-tenancy, and present our approach to modelling and deploying adaptive business processes for multi-tenant cloud/SaaS applications to address those challenges.
Dr Jun Han received his B.Eng. and M.Eng. degrees in Computer Science and Engineering from the University of Science and Technology Beijing, and his Ph.D. degree in Computer Science from the University of Queensland (Australia). Since July 2003, he has been Professor of Software Engineering in the Faculty of Information and Communication Technologies at Swinburne University of Technology (Australia), where he leads research into Software Systems Engineering. Professor Han is also a research leader with Australia's national Cooperative Research Centre in Smart Services (Smart Services CRC) and Cooperative Research Centre in Advanced Automotive Technology (AutoCRC). Prior to joining Swinburne, he held academic positions at Monash University (Australia) and the University of Queensland. 
Professor Han has published over 180 refereed research papers in international journals and conferences. His research is supported by the Australian Research Council, Australia’s national cooperative research centres (CRCs), and other government and industry organisations.  His current research interests include software architecture, software system qualities, adaptive and context-aware software systems, services engineering and management, and cloud computing systems. 
