http://english.is.cas.cn/ns/ue/201003/t20100316_51471.html
As processes evolve to handle current and future software challenges, so too must software cost estimation techniques and management metrics. Some of these challenges include emergent requirements, rapid change, net-centric system of systems, model-driven system development, service oriented architectures, Brownfield development, always-on never-fail system development, competitive prototyping, and hardware/software/human factors/systems engineering integration. This talk will discuss how these challenges will likely impact cost estimation processes and models, and provide examples of emerging approaches to the challenges.
Barry W. Boehm, TRW Professor of Software Engineering and Director Emeritus, Center for Software Engineering, University of Southern California.
Barry Boehm received his B.A. degree from Harvard in 1957, and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from UCLA in 1961 and 1964, all in Mathematics. He also received an honorary Sc.D. in Computer Science from the U. of Massachusetts in 2000. 
Between 1989 and 1992, he served within the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) as Director of the DARPA Information Science and Technology Office, and as Director of the DDR&E Software and Computer Technology Office. He worked at TRW from 1973 to 1989, culminating as Chief Scientist of the Defense Systems Group, and at the Rand Corporation from 1959 to 1973, culminating as Head of the Information Sciences Department. He was a Programmer-Analyst at General Dynamics between 1955 and 1959. 
His current research interests focus on value-based software engineering, including a method for integrating a software system's process models, product models, property models, and success models called Model-Based (System) Architecting and Software Engineering (MBASE). His contributions to the field include the Constructive Cost Model (COCOMO), the Spiral Model of the software process, the Theory W (win-win) approach to software management and requirements determination, the foundations for the areas of software risk management and software quality factor analysis, and two advanced software engineering environments: the TRW Software Productivity System and Quantum Leap Environment.　 
He has served on the boards of several scientific journals, including the IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering, IEEE Computer, IEEE Software, ACM Computing Reviews, Automated Software Engineering, Software Process, and Information and Software Technology. He has served as Chair of the AIAA Technical Committee on Computer Systems, Chair of the IEEE Technical Committee on Software Engineering, and as a member of the Governing Board of the IEEE Computer Society. He has also served as Chair of the Air Force Scientific Advisory Board's Information Technology Panel, Chair of the NASA Research and Technology Advisory Committee for Guidance, Control, and Information Processing, and Chair of the Board of Visitors for the CMU Software Engineering Institute. 
His honors and awards include Guest Lecturer of the USSR Academy of Sciences (1970), the AIAA Information Systems Award (1979), the J.D. Warnier Prize for Excellence in Information Sciences (1984), the ISPA Freiman Award for Parametric Analysis (1988), the NSIA Grace Murray Hopper Award (1989), the Office of the Secretary of Defense Award for Excellence (1992), the ASQC Lifetime Achievement Award (1994), the ACM Distinguished Research Award in Software Engineering (1997), and the IEEE Harlan D. Mills Award (2000). He is a Fellow of the primary professional societies in computing (ACM), aerospace (AIAA), electronics (IEEE), and systems engineering (INCOSE), and a member of the National Academy of Engineering.
1.　 ROCKET: Rand’s Omnibus Calculator of the Kinematics of Earth Trajectories, Prentice Hall, 1964.
2.　 Planning Community Information Utilities, co-edited with H. Sackman, AFIPS Press, 1972.
3. Characteristics of Software Quality, North Holland, with J.R. Brown, H. Kaspar, M. Lipow, G. McLeod, and M. Merritt, 1978. 
6. Ada and Beyond: Software Policies for the Department of Defense (study chair), National Academy Press, 1996.
7. Software Cost Estimation with COCOMO II, Prentice Hall, with C. Abts, A.W. Brown, S. Chulani, B.K. Clark, E. Horowitz, R. Madachy, D. Reifer, and B. Steece, 2000
8. Balancing Agility and Discipline: A Guide for the Perplexed, with R. Turner, Addison Wesley, 2004 
