http://english.is.cas.cn/ns/ue/200712/t20071227_25651.html
 Title: Testing Concurrent Java ComponentsSpeaker: Paul StrooperSchool of ITEEThe University of Queenslandpstroop@itee.uq.edu.au
Time:  9:30am, Monday Dec. 10Venue: Lecture room, Lab for Computer Science, Level 3 Building #5, Institute of Software, CAS
Testing concurrent software is notoriously difficult due to problemswith non-determinism and synchronisation.  While tools and techniquesfor the testing of sequential components are well-understood and widelyused, similar tools and techniques for concurrent components are notcommonly available. This presentation will look at the problems associatedwith testing concurrent components and propose techniques for dealingwith these problems.  Tool support is offered through ConAn (ConcurrencyAnalyser), a tool for generating test drivers for unit testing Javaclasses that are used in a multithreaded context.  To obtain adequatecontrollability over the interactions between Java threads, the generateddriver contains threads that are synchronized by a clock.  The driverautomatically executes the calls in a test sequence in the prescribedorder and compares the outputs against the expected outputs specifiedin the test sequence.  The limitations of the techniques and ConAn willbe discussed, and additional V&V tools and techniques to address theselimitations will be presented.
Dr Paul Strooper is a Professor in the School of IT&EE at The Universityof Queensland.  He received the BMath and MMath degrees in Computer Sciencefrom the University of Waterloo, and the PhD degree in Computer Sciencein 1990 from the University of Victoria.  His main research interest isSoftware Engineering, especially software specification, verification,and testing. He has had substantial interaction with industry through collaborative research projects, training and consultation in the areaof software V&V.  He was one of the program co-chairs for the 2002Asia-Pacific Software Engineering Conference (APSEC) and the program chairfor the 2004 and 2005 Australian Software Engineering Conferences (ASWEC).He is currently the Chair of the Steering Committee for ASWEC, a member ofthe Steering Committee for APSEC, and a member of the editorial board ofthe Journal of Software Testing, Verification and Reliability. 
