http://english.is.cas.cn/ns/ue/200809/t20080919_25766.html
 Title：Automated Model-Based Testing of Event-Driven Software Applications Speaker：Professor Atif M. Memon, Associate Professor at the University or Maryland and in the Institute for Advanced Computer Studies (UMIACS)
Time：2:00pm, Wednesday Sept. 24Venue: Lecture room, Lab for Computer Science, Level 3 Building #5Abstract: A particular class of software that is fast becoming ubiquitous is event-driven software (EDS). All EDS share a common event-driven model -- they take sequences of events (e.g., messages, mouse-clicks) as input, change their state, and (sometimes) output an event sequence. Quality assurance tasks such as testing have become important for EDS since they are now being used in critical applications. Research has shown that existing testing techniques do not apply directly to EDS. In this seminar, I will present some of the new techniques that my students and I have developed for automated model-based testing of EDS, in particular web applications, graphical user interfaces, network protocols, and middleware. Our most visible and important contribution to the field of software quality assurance is the development of a fully automated end-to-end process for testing EDS. The key enablers of this process include our novel event-flow model of EDS, reverse engineering techniques to obtain the model thereby minimizing manual work, and techniques to automatically generate/maintain test artifacts from the model. The event-flow model has been used by us to perform a wide variety of testing tasks by defining specialized model-based techniques called event-space exploration strategies (ESES). Some examples of ESES include AI planning-based goal-directed search for test-case generation, function composition for automated test oracle creation, metrics from graph theory to define test coverage criteria, graph-traversal to obtain test cases that are used to stabilize daily software builds, and graph matching to repair previously unusable test cases for regression testing, user profiles to test software components, and inductive learning to test software in multiple configurations. Most of these ESES have been implemented and distributed on the Internet as part of a software system called GUITAR, which has been downloaded more than 10,000 times in the last four years. 
Bio.： Professor Atif M. Memon is an Associate Professor at the University or Maryland and in the Institute for Advanced Computer Studies (UMIACS). He ranked in the "Top 50 software engineering scholars" in a recent article in Communications of the ACM, which details a framework for ranking institutions and researchers based upon publications. Prof. Memons other numerous awards and honors include a CAREER Award from the US National Science Foundation (2005), a Gold Medal from the Univ. of Karachi (1992), two Andrew Mellon pre-doctoral fellowships from the Andrew Mellon Foundation (2000-2001), best paper award at the Australian Software Engineering Conference (ASWEC 2004). He is currently a US National Academy of Sciences panelist in the area of Computer Science and Information Technology, Pakistan-U.S. Science and Technology Cooperative Program, sponsored by United States Agency for International Development (USAID), 2007. He serves on the Editorial Boards of the Journal of Software Testing, Verification and Reliability (STVR), The Open Software Engineering Journal (OSE), and Canadian Journal of Pure and Applied Sciences (CJPAS). He is the founder of the International Workshop on TESTing Techniques & Experimentation Benchmarks for Event-Driven Software; he is the PhD Symposium Chair of the 2nd IEEE International Conference on Software Testing Verification and Validation (ICST09). 
