http://english.is.cas.cn/ns/ue/200806/t20080613_25746.html
 [6-16]Efficient Bulk Transport and Mobility Control in Wireless Sensor Networks 
 Title: Efficient Bulk Transport and Mobility Control in Wireless Sensor Networks
Recent years have seen the deployments of wireless sensor networks (WSNs) in a number of data-intensive applications. WSNs have made it possible to sample the physical environments at unprecedented spatiotemporal resolutions. However, the need to transport the massive amount of data generated by sensor nodes to base stations poses a fundamental challenge due to the limited node bandwidth and high power consumption of multi-hop wireless communication. Bulk-data transport is an efficient communication paradigm for data-intensive sensor networks due to its low power consumption and overhead. In this talk, I will first describe the design and implementation of C-MAC, a model-driven wireless medium access control protocol for bulk data transmission. The key novelty of C-MAC is that nodes can assess the concurrency level of channel access based on online estimation of interference and power control models and thus maximize the aggregate throughput. C-MAC has been implemented in TinyOS and evaluated on a test-bed of 18 Tmote nodes. Our experiments show that C-MAC delivers a significantly higher network capacity than traditional MAC protocols. In the second part of this talk, I will describe our work on controlled mobility in WSNs. We propose to explore the efficient use of mobile sensors to address the limitations of static WSNs in target detection. We develop a data fusion model that enables static and mobile sensors to effectively collaborate in target detection. An optimal sensor movement scheduling algorithm is developed to minimize the total moving distance of sensors while achieving a set of spatiotemporal performance requirements. The effectiveness of our approach is validated by extensive simulations based on real data traces collected by 23 sensor nodes.
Guoliang Xing is an Assistant Professor of Computer Science at the City University of Hong Kong. He received the B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering and the M.S. degree in Computer Science from Xian Jiaotong University, China in 1998 and 2001, respectively. He received the DSc degree in Computer Science from Washington University in St. Louis in 2006. He is on a number of technical program committees for international conferences including MobiHoc and RTSS and holds several workshop chair positions including Program Co-chairs of the First ACM International Workshop on Heterogeneous Sensor and Actor Networks (HeterSanet) 2008 and the Fifth IEEE Workshop on Wireless Ad hoc and Sensor Networks (WWASN) 2008. His research interests include wireless sensor networks, mobile computing, and networked embedded systems.
