http://english.is.cas.cn/ns/ue/201305/t20130506_101646.html
 [5-9]Detection and Tracking of Dynamic Amorphous Events in Wireless Sensor Networks 
Title: Detection and Tracking of Dynamic Amorphous Events in Wireless Sensor Networks
Venue: Lecture Room, 3rd Floor, Building #5, State Key Laboratory of Computer Science, Institute of Software, Chinese Academy of Sciences
In recent years, wireless sensor networks (WSNs) have been deployed for various applications such as environmental monitoring, structural health monitoring, and emergency responses.  Using WSNs to detect and track interesting events has been a chief problem.  Events can be either point events, with an exact location and constant shape, or region events, which cover a large area and have dynamic shapes. While both of these types of event have received attention, no event detection and tracking algorithm in existing research is able to identify and track region events which may be created or destroyed through splitting and merging.  In this talk, I will first describe DRAGON, an event detection and tracking algorithm that is able to handle all types of events including region events with dynamic identities. I will also present a few technical details on AWARE, a network protocol that maintains the underlying communication structure adaptive to the dynamic amorphous events being tracked.  I will then describe a few highlights of our interdisciplinary research efforts including our award-winning research in building energy management and our first-of-a-kind work in environmental monitoring using wireless sensing systems. I will conclude with a brief discussion of our ongoing research projects in the areas of mobile wireless sensor networks, smartphone sensing, and robotic sensing. 
Qi Han (http://www.mines.edu/~qhan) is an Associate Professor of computer science in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at the Colorado School of Mines.  She directs the Pervasive Computing Systems (PeCS) research group (http://pecs.mines.edu). Her research interests include mobile sensing systems and applications, wireless and sensor networking, cyber-physical systems, and robotic sensor networks.　 She has also been active in interdisciplinary research where she has used wireless sensor networks for different applications such as monitoring of subsurface contaminant and development of energy efficient buildings.  Her research has been funded by the National Science Foundation, Department of Energy through collaboration with the National Renewable Energy Laboratories (NREL), and the Petroleum Institute at Abu Dhabi, UAE. Dr. Han received the Ph.D. degree from the Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Irvine in 2005 and Master's degree in computer science from Huazhong University of Science and Technology in Wuhan.  She has served on a number of technical program committees for international conferences and held several workshop or conference program chair positions. 
