http://english.is.cas.cn/ns/ue/201001/t20100111_49932.html
 [1-13]A Cross-Layer Routing in Wireless Ad Hoc Sensor Networks 
 Title：A Cross-Layer Routing in Wireless Ad Hoc Sensor NetworksSpeaker：Dr. Zhen Jiang（West Chester University of Pennsylvania, U.S.A.）
Abstract：We extend our early work on safety information in wireless ad hoc sensor networks to the realistic communication model in which each node has the opportunity to receive the signal from any node in the entire network. The safety information is a value in [0, 1] at each node which is calculated in a fully distributed manner based on 1-hop neighborhood information. It indicates the maximum probability of a successful straightforward path from this node to a destination along the edge of the networks. Such information can be used to mitigate the impact of local minima and achieve more straightforward paths in the geographic greedy forwarding. The whole construction process can converge quickly and be controlled in a limited area. By integrating with the MAC protocols, its cost can be minimized. Both analytical and experimental results illustrate that our new approach is cost-effective, compared with the best results known to date.
Biography：Dr. Zhen Jiang received B.S. degree from Shanghai Jiaotong University, China, in 1992,Master degree from Nanjing University, China, in 1998, and Ph.D. degree from Florida Atlantic University, U.S.A., in 2002. Currently, he is associate professor of Computer Science Department at West Chester University of Pennsylvania, U.S.A. He is also a faculty member of Information Assurance Center at West Chester University. His research interests are in the area of information system development, routing protocols, and wireless sensor networks.Dr. Jiang’s research mainly focuses on the information modeling in wireless sensor networks (WSNs). In every area of life there is an opportunity for research and improvement with the idea of “Going Green” in mind. By providing green information techniques, Dr. Jiang’s goal is to improve the utilization of the resources in WSNs versus replacing the entire network by another deployment or at least extending the lifetime so replacement is needed less often. Sensors are tiny devices and cannot get recharged after they are deployed. The power and computational ability in each one is critically limited. An efficient and effective resource management is the key to many applications such as environmental surveillance and target detection.Dr. Jiang’s research has been granted by many fund resources, internal and external, including National Science Foundation (NSF), IBM, CASSDA, and local FDC. Currently, he supervises two undergraduate students for a project (CCF 0936942) which is granted by Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU) program at NSF. His collaboration with more than 10 domestic and foreign universities is supported by NSF grants and is highly recognized. He was invited and currently serves as NSF panelist, external reviewer for Hong Kong Research Grant Council, and panelist for the office of Global Environment for Network Innovations (GENI). He is the area editor on wireless security for International Journal of Ad Hoc & Sensor Wireless Networks and MASAUM Journal of Computing. He was often invited to give talks, including the recent seminar talk given at Computing Department at Hong Kong Polytechnic University on October 20th 2009.Dr. Jiang is also active in many committees. He involved in the organization of many IEEE conferences and workshops, including the recent one for IEEE MASS 2009 as the finance and registration chair. He serves technique committee for more than 20 IEEE conference and workshops. He is invited to review technique papers for more than 10 journals. He is a member of IEEE. 
