http://english.is.cas.cn/ns/ue/201206/t20120608_86948.html
 [5-18]Slow Intelligence Systems - A New Approach for Component-based Software Engineering 
Title:　Slow Intelligence Systems - A New Approach for Component-based Software Engineering 
Speaker: Prof. Shi-Kuo Chang　（Department of Computer Science，University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, USA） chang@cs.pitt.edu
Venue: Lecture room 334, 3rd Floor, Building 5#, State Key Laboratory of Computer Science, Institute of Software, Chinese Academy of Sciences
Abstract: In this talk I will introduce the concept of slow intelligence as a new approach for component-based software engineering. Not all intelligent systems have fast intelligence. There are a surprisingly large number of intelligent systems, quasi-intelligent systems and semi-intelligent systems that have slow intelligence. Such slow intelligence systems are often neglected in mainstream research on intelligent systems, but they are really worthy of our attention and emulation. I will discuss the general characteristics of slow intelligence systems and then concentrate on evolutionary query processing for distributed multimedia systems as an example of artificial slow intelligence systems.　Other applications to data mining, product customization and network optimization will also be discussed.
Dr. Chang received the B.S.E.E. degree from National Taiwan University in 1965. He received the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of California, Berkeley, in 1967 and 1969, respectively. He was a research scientist at IBM Watson Research Center from 1969 to 1975. From 1975 to 1982 he was Associate Professor and then Professor at the Department of Information Engineering, University of Illinois at Chicago. From 1982 to 1986 he was Professor and Chairman of the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Illinois Institute of Technology. From 1986 to 1991 he was Professor and Chairman of the Department of Computer Science, University of Pittsburgh. He is currently Professor and Director of the Center for Parallel, Distributed and Intelligent Systems, University of Pittsburgh. Dr. Chang is a Life Fellow of IEEE. He published over 230 papers and 16 scientific books. He is the founder and co-editor-in-chief of the international journal, Visual Languages and Computing, published by Academic Press, the founder and editor-in-chief of the international journal, Software Engineering & Knowledge Engineering, published by World Scientific Press, and the co-editor-in-chief of the international journal on Distance Education Technologies. Dr. Chang pioneered the development of Chinese language computers, and was the first to develop a picture grammar for Chinese ideographs, and invented the phonetic phrase Chinese input method.
Dr. Chang's literary activities include the writing of over thirty novels, collections of short stories and essays. He is widely regarded as an acclaimed novelist in Taiwan. His novel, The Chess King, was translated into English and German, made into a stage musical, then a TV mini-series and a movie. It was adopted as textbook for foreign students studying Chinese at the Stanford Center (Inter-University Program for Chinese Language Studies administered by Stanford University), Taipei, Taiwan. In 1992, Chess King was adopted as supplementary reading for high school students in Hong Kong. The short story, "Banana Boat", was included in a textbook for advanced study of Chinese edited by Neal Robbins and published by Yale University Press. University of Illinois adopted "The Amateur Cameraman" in course materials for studying Chinese. Dr. Chang is also regarded as the father of science fiction in Taiwan. Some of Dr. Chang's SciFi short stories have been translated into English, such as "City of the Bronze Statue", "Love Bridge" , and "Returning" . His SciFi novel, The City Trilogy, was published by Columbia University Press in May 2003. 
