http://english.is.cas.cn/ns/ue/200810/t20081021_25773.html
 [10-23]Simulation-Based Planning, Re-Planning and Stability Analysis for Operational Release Plans 
 Title：Simulation-Based Planning, Re-Planning and Stability Analysis for Operational Release Plans
Speaker：Dr. Dietmar Pfahl, Research Scienctist of Simula Research Laboratory, NORWAY 
        Location: Martin Linges v 17, 1367 Snaroya, Room 526         Phone: +47 67 82 82 29         Fax: +47 67 82 82 01         E-Mail: dietmarp@simula.no
Software release planning takes place on strategic and operational levels. Strategic release planning aims at assigning features to subsequent releases such that technical, resource, risk and budget constraints are met. Operational release planning focuses on the realization of a single software release. Its purpose is to assign resources to feature development tasks such that total release duration is minimized under given process and project constraints. 
Re-planning becomes necessary on operational level due to many reasons. Typical examples are addition or deletion of features during release development, or changes in the workforce. The allocation of resources to feature development tasks depends on the accurate estimation of planning parameters such as feature size, developer productivity or feature and task dependencies. Stability analysis helps assess the vulnerability of a chosen operational release plan due to uncertainty in estimated planning parameters. In this talk, a simulation-based approach to planning, re-planning and stability analysis of operational software release plans will be presented. The core element of the presented approach is the process simulation model. 
REPSIM-2 (Release Plan Simulator, Version 2). During the presentation, the functionality of REPSIM-2 will be introduced, and its application for planning, re-planning and stability analysis will be illustrated with the help of several case examples. The talk will conclude with a presentation of future research directions.
Dietmar Pfahl is a research scientist in the Simula Research Laboratory, and an adjunct associate professor in the University of Oslo, Norway. Before that, he was a adjunct associate professor in the University of Calgary, Canada, department head with the Fraunhofer Institute for Experimental Software Engineering (IESE) in Kaiserslautern, Germany, project manager with Siemens Corporate Technology, Munich, and research staff member with the German Aerospace Research Establishment in Oberpfaffenhofen near Munich, Germany. Dr. Pfahl has more than 15 years of experience in conducting and leading national and international research and transfer projects with software industry, including organizations such as Bosch, DaimlerChrysler, Drger, Ericsson, and Siemens. 
Dr. Pfahls research interests include simulation-based software project management and process improvement, value-based software engineering, empirical software engineering, virtual laboratories for software engineering education, decision support, and theory building. 
