http://english.is.cas.cn/ns/ue/201009/t20100921_59209.html
Algorithm and Information Colloquium (AIC)Title:　 UCSD Distributed Cognition and Human-Computer Interaction Lab Research　  
Place:　　　　 Lecture Room, Level 3, Building No. 5, Institute of Software
I want to accomplish two things in this talk. First, I will briefly overview current research efforts in the DCOG-HCI Lab: (1) Ethnographer++, a tool to assist digital cognitive ethnography, (2) Data Prism, a tool for annotating video and other time-based data, (3) ActivityTrails, a system for capturing PC activity and supporting search to aid context reinstatement, (4) paper and and multitouch interfaces for the Calit2 HIPerSpace Wall (a 4 megapixel display wall composed of 70 30" montiors), and (5) assistive interfaces for deaf, senior, and aphasia populations. The goal of the first part of the talk is to introduce work of grad students who will be finishing soon. Second, I will describe a new effort we are just starting to further explore linking paper notes with digital content displayed in web browsers, Word, or Acrobat. The goal here is to get feedback and advice at an early stage of development.
Dr. Hollan is Professor of Cognitive Science at the University of California, San Diego (UCSD). He co-directs the Distributed Cognition and Human-Computer Interaction Laboratory at UCSD. Dr. Hollan's research focuses on exploring cognitive, computational, and social ecology of dynamic interactive media to inform the design in support of computer-mediated interaction and communication. Dr. Hollan is a member of the ACM CHI Academy, an honorary group of leaders in the field of human-computer interaction. Dr. Hollan's previous positions include Professor and Chair of Computer Science Department  at the University of New Mexico, the Director of Computer Graphics and Interactive Media Research Group at Bellcore, and the Director of Human Interface Laboratory at Microelectronics and Computer Technology Corporation. Dr. Hollan obtained his PhD from the University of Florida and received his post-doc training in Stanford University. 
