http://www.ict.cas.cn/xwzx/xshd/200806/t20080619_2119100.html
 报告人：Antonio Fernandez 教授 （Universidad Rey Juan Carlos, Spain）报告时间：6月19日上午10 点报告地点：中国科学院计算技术研究所446 会议室
摘要：In this work, using a game-theoretic approach, cost-sensitive mechanisms that lead to reliable Internet-based computing are designed.In particular, we consider Internet-based master-worker computation,where a master processor assigns, across the Internet, a computational task to a set of potentially un-trusted worker processors and collects their responses. Several game-theoretic models that capture the natureof the problem are analyzed and mechanisms that, for each given set of cost and system parameters, achieve high reliability are designed.Additionally, two specific realistic system scenarios are studied.These scenarios are a system of volunteering computing like SETI, and a company that buys computing cycles from Internet computers and sells them to its customers in the form of a task-computation service.Notably, under certain conditions, non redundant allocation yields the best trade-off between cost and reliability.
简历：  Antonio Fernandez Anta is a Professor at the Universidad Rey Juan Carlos in Madrid, Spain, since 1998. Previously, he was on the faculty of the Universidad Politecnica de Madrid. He graduated in Computer Science from the Universidad Politecnica de Madrid in 1991. He received his PhD Degree in Computer Science from the University of Louisiana,USA, in 1994, and worked at the Laboratory for Computer Science, MIT as a Post Doctoral Fellow from 1995 to 1997. Prof. Antonio Fernandez has published more than 30 referred journal papers and 45 referred conference papers. He has served, as Steering Committee Member,Chairman/Vice Chairman, and Program Committee Members for many International Conferences. His publications have been widely referenced (more than 600 citations). His research interests include data communications, computer networks, parallel and distributed processing, algorithms, and discrete and applied mathematics.
