http://english.ict.cas.cn/rh/rd/201112/t20111216_80112.html
The Data Storage and Management Technology Research Center is the main research entity of Institute of Computing Technology Chinese Academy of Sciences in the field of data storage and management systems. The center is one of the earliest research organization engaged in the research on mass storage systems. After endeavor for over ten years, the center has grown with a large number of professional talents in the field of storage and become one of the most influential research organizations in data storage area domestically. With the continued support of national research projects, the center breaks through a series of key technologies, and more importantly, transfers the technologies into widely-used products. The products are highly evaluated in the market and deployed all over the world (including the Winter Olympic Games, Hollywood and other environments). 
The center was established in 1997 as National Research Center for High Performance Computers. In 2001, its main research direction was focused on network storage technology which restricts the development of high-performance computing. And the center has been devoted itself to the research of high-performance mass storage technology and personnel training ever since then.
The center cultivated and gathered many senior storage technology talents and built the largest storage technology and research professional team in the country. Now it owns a research & test team with over 120 people. The center participates in national science planning work in the field of storage actively and promoted initiation of National 863 storage major projects of Eleventh Five-Year Plan. The center consecutively undertook dozens of research tasks, such as, National 863 Hi-Tech Program for systems -Mass Storage System Technology and Integration National 863 Hi-Tech Program–Virtual Storage System, National Natural Science Foundation Project- Architecture for Network Storage Cluster System, National 973 Project- On-demand Deployment and Service Quality Research of the Next-Generation Internet Storage, National 863 Information Storage Project of Eleventh Five-Year Plan–Mass High-end Storage System Key Technology and Application Demonstration for the Next Generation and National 863 Goal-oriented Project-Research and Implementation of Hybrid Protocol Storage System. Recently, it is undertaking near ten national level R&D projects, for instance, National 973 Storage Project of Twelfth Five-Year Plan, National 863 Triple-play Project, National Natural Science Foundation Project and so on. Based on above researches, the center has made major breakthrough in a series of storage key technology, for example, cluster file system technology, virtual storage technology, high-availability technology, load balance technology and so on. It also applied more than 40 inventive patents related to storage technology and published almost 100 academic papers.
The center pays attention to not only emergence of scientific achievements, but also transform of scientific achievements. Via the combination of industries, universities and research institutes, the advanced technology is transformed into BWFS (BlueWhale Clustered File System), BWStor (BlueWhale Clustered Storage System) and VSDS (BlueWhale Virtual Storage System) and other BlueWhale series storage products.BWStor series storage products have been unanimously recognized by users on radio and television, public security, national defense military, geophysical prospecting for petroleum, remote sensing information, aviation, education and scientific research, government agencies, exchange carrier, and other industries in domestic. What’s worthy of mentioning is that they have been sold around the world (including the United States, Canada, Brazil, Germany, Russia, Spain, Japan, Korea, Turkey, Israel and other several countries). BlueWhale series storage products undertook task of video processing that needs high performance for the 11th National Games, the 16th Asian Games, the 21st Winter Olympic Games and Hollywood digital films. What’s more, they took several data storage tasks of safe city (PB level) that needs high capacity for Hubei, Xinjiang and other cities. In addition, they took multiple National 863 storage demonstration applications which need high reliability.
