http://www.ict.cas.cn/xwzx/xshd/201209/t20120917_3645561.html
Digital Microfluidic Biochips (DMFBs) manipulate discrete droplets of liquid on a 2dimensional grid. This new technological innovation is expected to pave the way for fully automated, programmable, and miniaturized chemical reactions in the near future, which will increase the productivity of scientists in fields such as bioengineering and molecular and cellular biology. 
Assays, which are step-by-step biological protocols, have been compiled onto DMFBs in a static and inflexible manner that cannot support run-time challenges including variable-latency operations, control-flow that cannot be resolved statically, and temporary faults that occur during assay execution. To address these concerns, this talk will describe a runtime interpreter, motivated in part by the Java Virtual Machine, that is under development in the speaker's laboratory. The interpreter is designed to be flexible in order to address the aforementioned challenges, which simply cannot be resolved statically at compile-time. 
This talk will conceptually compare the interpretation approach to existing static compilation approaches, and will describe the design and implementation of the interpreter in detail. In particular, specialized attention will be paid to a novel deadlock-free droplet routing protocol that has been developed, which enables an efficient and intuitive intermediate bytecode format used internally within the interpreter. This has the dual and synergistic benefits of (1) Simplifying the design and implementation effort of the interpreter; and (2) Ensuring computationally efficient runtime, especially in the presence of dynamic operations whose execution times or other behavior is not known statically. Altogether, this work expands the capabilities of DMFB control software. 
主讲人简介　  Philip Brisk received his Ph.D. in Computer Science from UCLA in 2006. From 2006-2009 he was a postdoctoral scholar at EPFL in Switzerland. Since 2009, he has been an Assistant Professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at the University of California, Riverside. His current research interests include FPGA architecture and CAD algorithms, application-specific processor customization, and programmable microfluidic technology.
