http://www.ict.cas.cn/gjjl/xshd/201707/t20170711_4831863.html
 　　报告时间： 2017年7月12日（周三）上午 10:00　　报告地点：计算所 440教室　　主讲人： Dr. Xiaosong Ma Principal Scientist Qatar Computing Research Institute Hamad Bin Khalifa University　　报告摘要：　　Inter-application I/O contention and performance interference has been recognized as a severe problem. In this work, we demonstrate that high I/O variance co-exists with the fact that individual storage units remain under-utilized for the majority of time. This motivates us to propose AID, a system that performs automatic application I/O characterization and I/O-aware job scheduling. AID analyzes existing I/O traffic and batch job history logs, without any application-related prior knowledge or user/developer's involvement. Based on such auto-extracted information, AID provides online I/O-aware scheduling recommendations to steer I/O-intensive applications away from heavy ongoing I/O activities.　　We evaluate AID on the same supercomputer, using both real applications (with extracted I/O patterns validated by contacting users) and our own pseudo-applications. Our results confirm that AID is able to (1) identify I/O-intensive applications, plus their detailed I/O characteristics, and (2) significantly reduce these applications' I/O performance degradation/variance by jointly evaluating outstanding applications' I/O pattern and real-time system l/O load.　　In this talk I would also briefly discuss our recent work on extreme-scale parallel graph processing and datacenter workload co-scheduling.　　主讲人简介：　　Xiaosong Ma is currently a Principal Scientist at Qatar Computing Research Institute, HBKU.?Her research interests are in the areas of storage systems, parallel and distributed systems, cloud computing, graph processing, and workload characterization.?Previously, she was Associate Professor in the Department of Computer Science at North Carolina State University, as well as a Joint Faculty Member at Oak Ridge National Laboratory.? She received the DOE Early Career Principal Investigator Award in 2005, the NSF CAREER Award in 2006, an IBM Faculty Award in 2009, and a NetApp Faculty Fellowship, an HPDC 20-Year Best Paper Award, as well as a University of Illinois Department of Computer Science Alumni Distinguished Educator Award in 2012. Xiaosong received her Ph.D. in computer science from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 2003, and her B.S. in computer science from Peking University, China in 1997.
