http://www.ict.cas.cn/xwzx/xshd/200710/t20071024_2119112.html
 报告人：Gareth Jones, Eamonn Newman and Ying Zhang　　　　　　　  Centre for Digital Video Processing　　　　　　　  Dublin City University, Ireland
摘要：  The MultiMatch project (www.multimatch.org) is developing a multilingual multimedia search engine specifically designed for access, organization and personalised presentation of cultural heritage information. MultiMatch is being developed in the EU by a consortium of partners including universities, research organisations and content providers. The MultiMatch system provides search facilities for video, audio, still image, text and web content. Content is in a range of source languages, and has been provided by museums, libraries and other educational and cultural institutions, and gathered from the web. In our presentation, we will give an overview of the MultiMatch project, and the current prototype system and contents with detailed descriptions of the search functionality, the query enhancement services, and the bilingual and multi-lingual facilities available.  The presentation will also provide a brief overview of the research profile of the Centre for Digital Video Processing (CDVP) at Dublin City University (DCU).
Gareth Jones is a Principal Investigator in the Centre for Digital Video Processing and Senior Lecturer in Computing at Dublin City University. He has previous held positions at the University of Cambridge and University of Exeter, U.K., and as a Toshiba Fellow at the Toshiba Corporation Research and Development Center in Kawasaki, Japan. He was awarded BEng and PhD degrees from the University of Bristol, U.K. His research interests are focused on topics information retrieval including multil-ingual and cross-lingual IR, multimedia IR, spoken document retrieval, context-aware IR, and relevance feedback.
Eamonn Newman is a Post-Doctoral Researcher in the Centre for Digital Video Processing in Dublin City University. During his PhD, Eamonn studied the areas of Document Summarisation and Question-Answering and investigated the application of Machine Learning to NLP problems. His thesis work was based around the detection of Semantic Equivalence and Textual Entailment and the application of this to Summarisation and QA. Eamonns current research interests include mmulti-lingual and cross-lingual IR, multimodal IR and dynamic summarisation (user-biased and query biased).
Ying Zhang is a postdoctoral researcher at the Centre for Digital Video Processing, Dublin City University, Ireland. She received her PhD in Computer Science from the RMIT University, Australia. Her research interests include cross-lingual information retrieval, web mining, and query expansion.
