http://english.ict.cas.cn/et/sf/201304/t20130401_100440.html
Dr Tian is currently a full professor at the HPC Center of Institute of Computing Technology (ICT) and a selected “Hundred Talents Program” researcher of Chinese Academy of Sciences. He received a PhD from Dalian University of Technology in engineering in 2001 and an international course certificate from Kyoto University of Japan in 2003. From 2003 to 2009, Dr Tian has worked at, in order, the University of Tokyo, Japan Atomic Energy Agency, and Northwestern University (USA), focused on parallel finite element, meshless/particle simulation methodologies and large-scale simulation software. He has been involved in the e-Japan project of Frontier Simulation Software, developing the next generation large-scale parallel finite element and particle simulation software for Earth Simulator. His past experience also includes the development of the first Terascale grid-based finite element seismic simulation of nuclear facilities (the virtual nuclear plant project) and the development of large-scale multiscale ductile fracture simulator for computational material designs on BlueGene/L. He is currently leading a multidisciplinary group, including staff and students from mechanics, mathematics and computer science, to develop petascale simulation codes that can efficiently use petaflops supercomputers. More detail at http://www.ncic.ac.cn/~rtian
The successful candidate will be admitted into University of Chinese Academy of Sciences (UCAS) (http://english.ucas.ac.cn/Pages/default.aspx). 
UCAS offers full scholarship to foreign PhD program students with outstanding academic achievements. The full scholarship includes tuition, housing and a moderate living stipend. The living stipend is RMB 1,000/month for 1-3 academic years for the master program and RMB 1,200/month for 1-4 academic years for the PhD program. Please find more detail at
Applicants in computational mechanics and/or computational mathematics with greatest interest in large-scale parallel computing are most welcomed to apply. Interested individuals should send their CV directly to rongtian@ncic.ac.cn. 
