http://www.ict.cas.cn/gjjl/xshd/201304/t20130422_3824480.html
Non rail-borne, electrically operated vehicles will sooner or later become part of the streetscape of our cities, regardless of whether the euphoria of recent years continues or if it cools down somewhat. The driving force behind this is the “energy revolution”, and what can actually become reality due to the dramatic advances in the required base technologies which we have recently seen. Certainly, a large part of this is due to progress and advancements made in computer science, which allows for more precise control of complex technical processes and also for the real-time networking of all players involved. The potential for these upcoming changes is enormous – in a situation where we have complete integration of millions of electric vehicles for storage and for energy conversion in a decentralized electric network and, at the same time, have integration in multi modal mobility concepts and real time price setting, we can expect drastic changes in our economic activity and in our daily lives. These potential opportunities can only be tapped when the technical problems which currently stand in our way are realistically identified and correctly communicated, and if our political and economic decision-makers give us a substantial basis to work with. This presentation will give you a brief overview of the energy landscape, and the technology areas which are important for electro-mobility, as well as the current state of the art of the technology. In particular, I refer to the question of the consequences of the exchange of drive type and energy storage which will result in a totally new type of vehicle architecture. I will introduce the projects “Robust and Reliant Automotive Computing Environment for Future eCars (RACE)” and "Innovative Electronic Control Units (ECU)" which create innovative information and communication architecture in a way that combines all the functions on a few central computers within a single bus system. Lastly, I will deal with the issue of embedding such vehicles in the modeling of traffic flow, and look at what the future may hold in terms of possibilities for successful predictive simulation.
Alois C. Knoll received the diploma (M.Sc.) degree in Electrical/Communications Engineering from the University of Stuttgart, Germany, in 1985 and his Ph.D. (summa cum laude) in computer science from the Technical University of Berlin, Germany, in 1988. He served on the faculty of the computer science department of TU Berlin until 1993, when he qualified for teaching computer science at a university (habilitation). He then joined the Technical Faculty of the University of Bielefeld, where he was a full professor and the director of the research group Technical Informatics until 2001. Between May 2001 and April 2004 he was a member of the board of directors of the Fraunhofer-Institute for Autonomous Intelligent Systems. At AIS he was head of the research group "Robotics Construction Kits", dedicated to research and development in the area of educational robotics. Since autumn 2001 he has been a professor of Computer Science at the Computer Science Department of the Technische Universität München. He is also on the board of directors of the Central Institute of Medical Technology at TUM (IMETUM-Garching); between April 2004 and March 2006 he was Executive Director of the Institute of Computer Science at TUM. In 2010, Prof. Knoll was appointed a Fellow of the University of Tokyo, Japan.His research interests include cognitive, medical and sensor-based robotics, multi-agent systems, data fusion, adaptive systems and multimedia information retrieval. In these fields he has published over 400 technical papers and guest-edited international journals. He has participated (and has coordinated) several large scale national and international collaborative research projects (funded by the EU, the DFG, the DAAD, the state of North-Rhine-Westphalia), running over 50 million EU funding currently. He is also the coordinator of the 'Neurorobotics Platform' for the new EU Flagship-Project “Human Brain Project”. He initiated and was the program chairman of the First IEEE/RAS Conference on Humanoid Robots (IEEE-RAS/RSJ Humanoids2000), he was general chair of IEEE Humanoids2003 and general chair of Robotik 2004, the largest German conference on robotics, and he served on several other organising committees. Prof. Knoll is a member of the German Society for Computer Science (Gesellschaft für Informatik (GI)) and the IEEE. 
