http://www.ict.cas.cn/gjjl/xshd/201005/t20100520_2849844.html
The growing cost of healthcare and the aging population in developed countries have introduced great challenges for governments, healthcare providers and healthcare industry. There is great interest in using emerging wireless technologies to support remote patient monitoring in an unobtrusive, reliable and cost effective manner thereby providing personalized sustainable services to patients. Wireless Body Area Networks (WBANs) is one such emerging technology that has the potential to significantly improve health care delivery, diagnostic monitoring, disease-tracking and related medical procedures. A crucial aspect of WBANs is their ability to provide high reliability communication between medical devices, especially those implanted in the human body. 
In this presentation, research activities into WBANsat Macquarie University ,such as interference mitigation in WBANs using a game theory approach and precise implantable device localization inside the human body will be described.The speaker will also describe the development of a medical WBAN research platform to investigate challenges and develop pragmatic solutions including communications and networking protocols in WBANs. 
报告人简介：Professor Eryk Dutkiewicz has over 20 years of industrial and academic research experience. He has conducted research and development with network operators and equipment manufacturing companies. Over the last ten years his research focused on quality of service mechanisms for wireless and mobile networks. From 1999 to 2004 he worked at Motorola where he managed a wireless research laboratory. Since returning to academia he has worked closely with industry partners including Motorola, Agere Systems and Freescale Semiconductor on projects involving wireless sensor networks, mesh networks and ultrawideband technologies. He currently works at Macquarie University as a Professor of Wireless Communications leading the Wireless Communications and Networking Laboratory. 　　　The Laboratory focuses on research into medium access control and associated cross-layer issues in WBANs and broadband communications networks. Prof. Dutkiewicz also holds visiting appointments at the Chinese Academy of Sciences in Beijing and at Shanghai Jiao Tong University. He is an author of over 100 research papers and several book chapters. 
