http://english.ict.cas.cn/ns/es/201112/t20111214_80037.html
Hosted by the Institute of Computing Technology, CAS, the annual Hadoop in China conference (HiC2011) concluded successfully on December 3rd, 2011 at Beijing Conference Center. The founder of Lucene, Nutch and Hadoop open source software, Chairman of Apache Software Foundation, Mr. Doug Cutting visited China for his first time, and presented a keynote speech entitled "Apache Hadoop and the Big Data Platform" at HiC2011. To the majority of developers and users of Hadoop, his presentation has depicted a blueprint for the future development of Hadoop ecosystem. Doug Cutting said, "Hadoop and Big Data technologies have not come to their maturity yet and will be more rapidly developed in the future." Founder of Condor, Professor Miron Livny from University of Wisconsin-Madison, andDean of the Computer Science Department at the Ohio State University, Robert M. Chritchfield Professor Xiaodong Zhang, also attended HiC2011. The two famous computer scientists have brought academic viewpoints on Big Data computing to all audience. Both academia and industry perspectives on Big Data have produced a full and beneficial impact at this year’s Hadoop in China conference.
AsHadoop in China community's annual technology event, this year’s convention has many highlights with the theme "Dig Out Treasure From Big Data". Firstly, the future trends of Big Data technologies have been discussed from perspectives of both academia and industry. Secondly, the practical experiences of Big Data area brought by manyengineers at the production line attractedthe participants’ attention. Thirdly,Big Data technologies have been covering more and more areas, andthe actual needs fromreal applicationsare promoting the continual emergence of newhot spots andnew technologies. Fourthly,Hadoopopen source community andthe ecosystembegan to show their strength, and Hadoop has become the de facto standard of Big Data area. "The mostmeticulousdetails in research and development,the most direct communication and interaction" has insured this year’s Hadoop in China reach the goals of "Understandingthe actual needs, Listening tothe master’s viewpoints, Promoting the applicationpractice, Carrying forwardthe spirit ofopen source."
In addition to the main venue, the two-day conference also set up four parallel sessions, with the topics of Hadoop ecosystem, Big Data Technologies and Applications, NoSQL Systems and its Applications, Cloud Computing Research. A total of eight keynote speeches and forty session reports were presented at HiC2011. Scholars and senior developers from Google, Facebook, Yahoo!, eBay, China Mobile, Huawei, Baidu, Tencent, EMC, Intel, QIHU360, Taobao, Sugon, IBM and other well-known internet companies and IT companies gave lectures and exchanged experiences with other attendees on site. Big data practitioners and researchers from all over the country actively participated in HiC2011. The number of attendees far exceeded previous years. Director of the Academic Committee of Institute of Computing Technology, CAS, Professor Zhiwei Xu, gave a welcome speech on behalf of the organizer. Vice chief engineer of the Institute of Computing Technology, Professor Xueqi Cheng, chaired the meeting.
