http://english.ict.cas.cn/et/sf/201304/t20130401_100441.html
Dr. HU is currently a full professor at the State Key Laboratory of Computer Architecture, Institute of Computing Technology (ICT), Chinese Academy of Sciences. She received her B.S., M.S. and Ph. D. degrees all in electrical engineering from University of Electronic Science and Technology of China (UESTC) in 1997, 1999, and 2003, respectively. Dr. Hu's research interests generally include architectural-level and circuit-level reliable design techniques. She has led over seven research projects supported by Ministry of Science and Technology of the People's Republic of China, National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC), Beijing Municipal Science & Technology Commission, and five research projects funded by Mentor Graphics, Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd, etc. She is currently leading a reliable design research group, including faculties and students to develop FPGA and non-volatile memory that can meet the reliability requirements with balanced performance and power efficiency. Dr. Hu received a number of awards and honors include the Lu Jia-Xi Young Talent Award from Chinese Academy of Sciences in 2009, the Outstanding Faculty Research Award from ICT in 2008 and 2007, the Special Scholarship from China Instrument and Control Society in 2001, and the Top Scholarship in UESTC for excellent students in each year from 1993 through 1999.
The successful candidate will be admitted into University of Chinese Academy of Sciences (UCAS) (http://english.ucas.ac.cn/Pages/default.aspx). 
UCAS offers full scholarship to foreign PhD program students with outstanding academic achievements. The full scholarship includes tuition, housing and a moderate living stipend. The living stipend is RMB 1,000/month for 1-3 academic years for the master program and RMB 1,200/month for 1-4 academic years for the PhD program. Please find more detail at
Applicants in VLSI design and/or computer architecture with greatest interest in FPGA and non-volatile memory are most welcomed to apply. Interested individuals should send their CV directly to huyu@ict.ac.cn. 
