http://www.ict.cas.cn/xwzx/xshd/201204/t20120418_3558372.html
As the amount of data we are actively managing continues to expand at around 20% per year, enterprise organizations are experiencing a massive growth of data storage demands. They have to ensure that these increasing volumes are easily managed, while still being highly available and affordable. 
In this talk, I will highlight some of the key storage technologies, including storage architecture that moves from DAS to NAS/SAN, virtualization to ease management of aggregate storage pools that use available capability more efficiently, data protections for ensuring information integrity, high-availability clusters for minimizing the down-time, and file system architecture in the state-of-art storage systems. These technologies enable IT to grow through better use of their existing assets and more efficient management of ever-expanding storage data. As storage evolves to meet the increasing demands from the businesses and applications, there are some major trends in the storage technology industry for 2012 that will also be covered in this talk. 
Dr. Wangyuan Zhang is a R&D engineer in NetApp, which is a computer storage and data management company headquartered in Sunnyvale California. This company is ranked among top 10 best companies to work for in US and is the second-leading storage vendor. As a member of NetApp’s core file system team, Dr. Wangyuan Zhang involves in the design and development of new features for NetApp’s crown jewel, the Write Anywhere File Layout (WAFL) file system. Prior to joining NetApp, Dr. Wangyuan Zhang received his Ph.D. in Computer Engineering from the University of Florida in Aug 2010 and B.S. in Electrical Engineering and Automation from Beihang University in June 2005. During his Ph.D. study, he was conducting research in the field of computing architecture with a focus on emerging memory system design, 3D microarchitecture, and the interaction between computer architecture and operating system. 
