http://english.ict.cas.cn/ju/
  The Institute of Computing Technology of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (hereafter ICT) was established in 1956. It was the first academic institution to specialize in comprehensive research into computer science and technology in China. ICT successfully produced China's first general-purpose digital computer, and has turned into a R&D base for high-performance computer technology in China. It is the place where China's first general-purpose CPU chip was born.  ICT is the cradle for China's computer profession, having spun off many academic institutions and hi-tech companies. They include the Institute of Microelectronics, Computing Center, Institute of Software Computer Network Information Center, all of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, as well as hi-tech companies such as Lenovo and Dawning.  ICT is one of the first pilot institutes for the Knowledge Innovation Program in the Chinese Academy of Sciences. ICT is now in the process of developing into a networked research institute, consisting of the headquarter in Beijing plus several branches in Shanghai, Suzhou, Ningbo, Dongguan and elsewhere.   At the headquarter, ICT has three R&D divisions and one Center for Advanced Studies. The Systems Architecture Division is mainly engaged in R&D activities related to building advanced computer systems, covering computer system architecture, microprocessor design, network storage, compiler technology and spatial information processing. Its accomplishments include the Dawning series of high-performance computers, the Longson CPUs, and the Blue Whale Network Storage. The Network and Pervasive Computing Division focuses on next generation network infrastructure and digital contents processing, carrying out in-depth research into mobile internet, trusted networks and systems, broadband mobile communications, sensor networks, digital media, human-computer interactions, virtual reality, and multimedia terminals. The Intelligent Software Division conducts research on theories, algorithms and technology for information security, information retrieval, grid computing, and intelligent information processing. The Center for Advanced Computing Technology Research aims at fundamental, advanced and cross-disciplinary computing research.  ICT holds firmly to the new-era guidelines of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, focusing on fundamental, strategic and advanced research. It aims to becoming a leader in computing technology, being concerned with the national interest and people's livelihood, and leading Chinese IT industry. It implements the motto of innovation and seeking truth and strives to be a leading international institute. ICT is soliciting applications from top candidates in the following fields. 
2. Compensation: 1) All the positions are at professor or associate professor level. The salary and benefit package follow the regulation of ICT. 2) The candidates with strong background are eligible for applying for “100 Talent Program.” 
3. Application Materials: 1) Resume; 2) Supporting documents/hardcopies certifying your highest degree, academic/technical achievement /awards, and/or the current employment etc ; 3) Copies of 3 representative papers ; 4) 2-3 recommendation letters; 5) A statement on your research vision, plan, and requirements. 
4. Contact informationMr. Ji-Tao SongHR Department, The Institute of Computing Technology P.O.Box 2704,Beijing, 100080,P.R.ChinaPhone:86+10+62601206songjitao@ict.ac.cn,  www.ict.ac.cn 
