http://english.ict.cas.cn/ns/es/201112/t20111208_79870.html
On November 30th, Strategy Seminar, Fall 2011 was held by ICT with a view to grasping the strategic chance for IT development of and better mapping out the strategy for ICT’s future development. Over 80 people attended the seminar, including Director General Sun Ninghui, Deputy Secretary General Li Jintao, Dr. Li Guojie, research fellows and assistant research fellows from 13 research entities under ICT, and so no. The seminar was organized by IT Strategy Research Center, CIT.
Dr. Li Guojie delivered a speech titled as “Thoughts on How to Carry out Prospective Research”. Based on an in-depth analysis of the current situation of IT development, Dr. Li pointed out the weak points in prospective research of computer science and broached up some suggestions on how to improve ICT’s prospective research. 
Two wonderful reports, “Strategy for Integrated Development of IT & CT” by Research Fellow Tang Zhimin and “Social Value of Computer Scientific Research” by Research Fellow Xu Zhiwei, shed new lights on a scalable and re-constructible processor array and the social value of scientific research respectively. 
In his inspiring speech “Thoughts on the Development Strategy of ICT Oriented at Innovation 2020 during the 12th Five-Year Plan Period”, Director General Sun Ninghui pointed out ICT’s historic mission in Innovation 2020, and talked about strategic planning, implementation measures and policies of ICT during the 12th Five-Year Plan Period. He concluded his remarks by the notion of 4 circles for ICT’s future development: core circle for knowledge innovation, circle for technical transfer, circle for technical radiation, and circle for social economy. 
The afternoon session witnessed heated discussions over the keynote speech and various aspects of development strategy. Through the discussions, participants at the seminar came to a common understanding and a clearer sense of urgency and responsibility for development. The seminar achieved expected results and will play an important role in ICT’s further development. 
