http://english.ict.cas.cn/et/pe/
Since its first enrollment of postgraduates in 1960 till the summer of 2009, ICT has brought up 760 PhD and 1412 master-degree students for the country. Currently, the number of postgraduates enrolled at ICT reached 1046, among whom 463 were doctoral degree candidates, and 583 were master degree candidates. Besides, 32 people are pursuing post doctoral studies at ICT. ICT has become one of the training units with the largest number of students pursing doctoral degrees in computer science in China. “Equal Stress on Integrity and Ability, Pragmatic Innovation” has always been the guideline and goal of ICT in the cultivation of postgraduate students. ICT has been attaching great importance to the cultivation of overall qualities including moral education, domain knowledge and ability for scientific research. Its First Level Discipline is computer science and technology, including 4 majors of the Second Level Discipline: computer system architecture, computer software and theory, computer applied technology, and information security. ICT gathers together excellent students from universities across the country, 85% of whom come from key universities and institutions of Project “211”. To encourage the students to work hard, ICT established “Dean Scholarship”, “Lenovo Scholarship”, “Nokia Scholarship” and other scholarships, and formulated the system of “Youth Innovation Fund”, Research Assistant (RA), and postgraduate student instructor to give all the students the chance to participate in the practical work in the frontiers of computer science and technology and State level key projects. After over half a century’s hard work, ICT has gained substantial strength in cultivating talented personnel, and has made a series of achievements:·It was authorized by the State in the first batch to offer doctoral and masters degree programs;·It was authorized by the State to offer doctoral degree in the First Level Discipline of “Computer Science and Technology”;·It is a key education-base of Chinese Academy of Sciences for doctoral students;·It was authorized as a postdoctoral station by the State in the first batch;·It was authorized by the State in the first batch to award master’s degree to those with equivalent graduate and post-graduate education.In 1999, ICT was awarded the title of "Outstanding Institution in the Management of Academic Degree and Postgraduate Education of China" by the Degree Office of the State Council and the Ministry of Education.As of August 2009, 4 doctoral theses from ICT were selected as “National Excellent Doctor Degree Dissertation” one after another. 
