http://english.ict.cas.cn/ns/es/201202/t20120215_81336.html
On February 7, 2012, ICT Ningbo branch successfully displayed on TV “Automatic Alarm for the Fall of the Elderly”, an alarm system solely developed by Ningbo Branch on their own. Engineer Wang Honglong debriefed the functions and working mechanism of the device, using vivid and easy-to-understand wording. 
Along with the aging of population in China, we see more and more demands for the care of the elderly who are living alone. Therefore, the development of such a device is of great importance. Based on the research of body posture automatic detection algorithm and the detection mechanism of acceleration sensor, the device can send SMS alert when an elderly person falls down so that his or her guardian may get informed as soon as possible and waste no time in calling for rescue. The elderly can also give the alarm manually when they are not feeling well. The device integrates GPRS positioning system which enables effective positing and tracing of the action area of the elderly people. And at the same time, the device can differentiate “fall” from “rest”, with least chance of error reporting.
Ever since it was shown to the public for the first time at 2011 China (Ningbo) Smart City Technology and Application Expo, it has been catching the eyeball of the general public. Ningbo Evening News made a special coverage of it, which aroused great response among the public. Later, ICT Ningbo Branch conducted active cooperation with China Mobile Ningbo Branch. On the platform of “Care of the Elderly” established by China Mobile, ICT Ningbo Branch added some new  value add services, such as exercise monitoring, alert, suggestions for daily exercise, life and health information, and so on. With an exquisite appearance, it is easy to use and convenient to carry. Further optimization of the prototype in circuit and algorithm is now being made. Appearance design and structure mould development is also under the way.ICT Ningbo Branch will try their best to improve the product and bring it to market as soon as possible so as to form a new trinity system of automatic alarm system, neighborhood and medical service to the benefit of the elderly. Ningbo Branch will make further endeavors to contribute more to the construction of smart city and smart life in Ningbo. 
