http://www.ict.cas.cn/gjjl/jldt/200908/t20090819_2423575.html
　　第17届国际信息与知识管理年会 (Association of Computing Machinery Conference on Information and Knowledge Management，ACM CIKM 2008) 于2008年10月26日到10月30日在加州北部50英里之外的著名葡萄酒之乡Napa Valley召开。ACM CIKM是数据库、信息检索与知识管理领域顶级学术会议，每年一届，文章的录用率一直在20%以下，与SIGIR一起并列为信息检索领域的最顶级国际会议。从1992年召开以来，得到了研究界和工业界的广泛关注。本次会议共收到论文772篇，最终录用论文255篇，其中长文131篇（17%），poster124篇（16%）。
　　T1：Large Graph Mining: Patterns, Tools and Case Studies (Christos Faloutsos, Hanghang Tong, CMU)
　　T3：Evolution of Rule-based Information Extraction: from Grammars to Algebra (IBM Almaden Research Center)
　　T4: Information and Knowledge Management with Graphs and Matrices (Fei Wang, Tao Li, Chris Ding)
　　Data Mining has made tremendous strides in the last decade. It is time to take data mining to the next level of contributions, while continuing to innovate for the current mainstream market. We postulate that a fruitful future direction could be humane data mining: applications to benefit individuals. The potential applications include personal data mining (e.g. personal health), enable people to get a grip on their world (e.g., dealing with the long tail of search), enable people to become creative (e.g., inventions arising from linking non-interacting scientific literature), enable people to make contributions to society (e.g. education collaboration networks), and data-driven science (e.g., study ecological disasters, brain disorders). Rooting our future work in these (and similar) applications will lead to new data mining abstractions, algorithms, and systems.
　　10.28 Markov Logic: A Unifying Language for Information and Knowledge Management (Pedro Domingos, University of Washington)
　　Modern information and knowledge management is characterized by high degrees of complexity and uncertainty. Complexity is well handled by first-order logic, and uncertainty by probabilistic graphical models. What has been sorely missing is a seamless combination of the two. Markov logic provides this by attaching weights to logical formulas and treating them as templates for features of Markov random fields. I will survey Markov logic representation, inference, learning and applications. Inference algorithms combine ideas from satisfiability testing, resolution, Markov chain Monte Carlo and belief propagation. Learning algorithms involve statistical weight learning and inductive logic programming. Markov logic has been successfully applied to a wide range of information and knowledge management problems, including information extraction, entity resolution, ontology learning, link prediction, heterogeneous knowledge bases, and others. It is the basis of the open-source Alchemy system.
　　Search applications have become ubiquitous and very successful. Major advances have been made in understanding how to deliver effective results very efficiently for a class of queries. As the range of applications broaden to include Web search, desktop search, enterprise search, vertical search, social search, etc., the number of new research challenges has appeared to grow rather than shrink. Many of these challenges are variations on underlying themes and principles that information retrieval has focused on for more than 40 years. In this talk, the unsolved problems arising from new search applications will be categorized and discussed in terms of information retrieval models, and some potential paths to solutions for these problems will be outlined.
　　同时，在本次会议提供的这个平台上，我们除了增强与国内相关研究机构的互动（北大，清华，人大，Baidu），还通过与Montreal大学的Jianyun Nie教授，Drexel大学的Tony Hu教授等进行了学术上请教与探讨，明确了后一步研究的思路。在会议期间我还与CMU的Christos教授，Hanghang Tong博士，IBM Almaden研究中心的Huaiyu Zhu，UCSC的Yi Zhang教授，Waterloo的Jimmy Huang教授， UIUC的Deng Cai博士和Qiaozhu Mei博士等进行了一些请教与交流。在短短的几天会议过程中，我结识了许多来自美国大学（CMU，UCSC等）与产业界（EBay，HP等）的留学生和华人，为以后的学术交流提供了更加方便的平台。
