http://www.ict.cas.cn/gjjl/xshd/200906/t20090611_2119132.html
 主讲人:Ph.D. Lei Zhang (张雷) The Hong Kong Polytechnic University 时间：2009年6月11日(周四)下午3:30-5:00 地点：计算所4层报告厅 
报告摘要： Biometric based personal authentication has been widely used in the current e-world and has great potentials for large-scale application in the future. For example, the Hong Kong government has been using the fingerprint recognition system as the automated passenger clearance system (e-channel) since 2004. In the past three decades researchers have exhaustively investigated the use of a number of biometric characteristics, including fingerprint, face, iris, retina, palm-print, hand geometry, hand vein, voice, ear, gait and signature, etc. However, researchers never stop developing new biometric techniques because each biometric identifier has its own advantage and disadvantages and none of them can supercede the others. This talk will introduce some new finger based biometric techniques developed in the Biometrics Research Center, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University. Specifically, I will introduce the high resolution fingerprint recognition (HRFR) system and the finger knuckle print (FKP) system. The results show that these new finger based techniques have very promising performance for practical applications. 
主讲人简介： Lei Zhang received the B.S. degree in 1995 from Shenyang Institute of Aeronautical Engineering, Shenyang, P.R. China, the M.S. and Ph.D degrees in Automatic Control Theory and Engineering from Northwestern Polytechnical University, Xi’an, P.R. China, respectively in 1998 and 2001. From 2001 to 2002, he was a research associate in the Dept. of Computing, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University. From Jan. 2003 to Jan. 2006 he worked as a Postdoctoral Fellow in the Dept. of Electrical and Computer Engineering, McMaster University, Canada. Since Jan. 2006, he has been an Assistant Professor in the Dept. of Computing, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University. His research interests include Image and Video Processing, Biometrics, Pattern Recognition, Computer Vision, Multisensor Data Fusion and Optimal Estimation Theory, etc. He is an Associate Editor of IEEE Trans. on SMC-C. 
