http://english.ict.cas.cn/rh/rd/200908/t20090820_33348.html
 Upcoming Events:   ScalaExtrap: Trace-Based Communication Extrapolation for ...
The Information Security Research Center is mainly engaged in network and information security, with specific research areas including information security attribute computing, network data stream management, network security detection and response, information countermeasure techniques, etc. The Center is the main component of the National Engineering Laboratory for Information Content Security Technology. The Center has obtained a series of remarkable achievements, together with some important advances in key techniques. Also it has made practical contributions to the assurance of national cyberspace security. As the main developer and key technique provider, the Center has participated in the construction of serial systems for national cyberspace security assurance, which greatly supports the responsibilities of national information security administration departments. 
In recent years, the Center has been granted by the 973 project, the 863 key projects, the NSFC projects, and some important security special projects from the Ministry of Industries and Informatization, etc., with the funds obtained adding up to more than one hundred million yuan. The main achievements are as follows. Some key techniques and algorithms have undergone test and practical verification of related international standards, having reached international advanced level. More than 400 papers have been published, tens of which having been presented or published at top-level symposiums and in SCI Indexed journals. The Center has applied for nearly 30 patents, some of which have been granted, together with nearly 30 software registration. Also the Center has achieved great success in the construction of serial systems for national cyberspace security assurance, and as a result the Center was honored with a first prize and a second prize for National Scientific and Technological Progress.　
