http://english.ict.cas.cn/ns/icn/200911/t20091119_47446.html
Professor Huang Kai, a famous American expert, made an academic speech at ICT Dongguan Branch upon invitation
 Upcoming Events:   Resource Allocation in 4G Wireless Data Networks
 Upcoming Events:   Network Routing for Efficient Energy Usage
 Professor Huang Kai, a famous American expert, made an academic speech at ICT Dongguan Branch upon invitation
　　On November 19th, ICT Dongguan Branch invited Professor Huang Kai, a Lifetime Professor of Computer Science Department, University of South Carolina, and a famous expert on network and information security to visit Songshan Lake and deliver a wonderful academic speech on the cutting edge technology in computer science – Cloud Computing. The seminar was hosted by Mr. Ji Tongkai, Person in Charge of ICT Dongguan Branch. Mr. Wu Yiyun, Deputy Consultant-Director of Dongguan Science and Technology Bureau delivered an address. Mr. He Yuepei, Head of Dongguan Science and Technology Bureau, and Mr. Wu Meiliang, Deputy Head of the Bureau and other leaders attended the seminar. Around 100 representatives attended the seminar, including government staff from Dongguan Science and Technology Bureau, Dongguan Economy and Trade Bureau, Songshan Lake Administration Committee, and representatives from such enterprises and institutions as Dongguan Science and Technology Museum, Dongguan Industry Support Union, Songshan Lake technical innovation platforms, Taiwan Electrical and Electronic Manufacturers Association, and so on. 
　　During the one-day long seminar, Professor Huang explained the basic concept of Cloud Computing in humorous, vivid and simple terms and expatiated on the huge influence of the development of Cloud Computing. He introduced to the audience the development status of Cloud Computing all over the world and IBM, Microsoft and other famous big companies’ development strategy and trend for Cloud Computing. In addition, he explained the direction and content of the research of Cloud Computing in simple terms, including virtual Cloud structure, data security, disaster recovery, fault tolerance and Cloud Services applied in Geographical Space, etc. After the speech, Professor Huang conducted exchanges with the audience present at the seminar about Cloud Computing, and answered the questions raised by the audience with great patience.
　　Professor Huang Kai graduated from University of California, Berkeley, and taught at Purdue University, University of Minnesota, Hongkong University, Tokyo University and Taiwan University. He is mainly engaged in Network-based Computing, internet security, automatic response to intrusion, trust grid computing, etc. Thanks to his rich experience in the R&D and teaching in the field of computer engineering and information technology, he enjoys very high reputation in the computer field, and is frequently invited to give academic reports all over the world. He has made keynote reports at many international conferences. He is the Technical Advisor for IBM, JPL, MIT Lincoln, Intel, ETL of Japan, GMD of Germany. He has published over 200 papers and 7 books.  
　　So far, the Cloud Computing based modern service innovation platform under construction by ICT Dongguan Branch is the first independently owned Cloud Computing platform in China. Dongguan Municipal Government has made an investment of 30 million yuan and rendered great support for the project. ICT Dongguan Branch engaged Professor Huang Kai as Guest Professor and Senior Scientific Consultant to guide the science research of the institute and speed up the construction of Cloud Computing Platform. A short ceremony of engagement was held at the seminar.  
