http://www.ict.cas.cn/xwzx/xshd/201107/t20110721_3312272.html
报告摘要: (1) Introduction to the Centre for Next Generation Localisation (CNGL) by Paraic Sheridan Language barriers constitute a formidable obstacle to the free flow of nformation, products and services in an increasingly globalised economy and information society. “Localisation” refers to the process of adapting digital content to culture, locale and linguistic environments at high quality and speed. Localisation is a key enabling, value-adding, multiplier component of the global software and content distribution industry. Localisation seeks to overcome language barriers. The Centre for Next Generation Localisation (CNGL) in Ireland is a dynamic Academia-Industry partnership with over 100 researchers developing novel technologies addressing the key localisation challenges of volume, access and personalisation. The mission of the CNGL is to revolutionise localisation via breakthroughs in automation, composition and integration, focusing on: integrated machine translation technology, speech-based interfaces and more personalised speech output, multilingual digital content management for personalised multilingual content access and delivery, and localisation workflows and system integration. This presentation will describe the background to the CNGL and its place in the development of global localisation technologies, including are view of its research activities in language related technologies and its engagement with industry. (2) Using Recommenders for Enhanced Domain-Specific Information Retrieval by Li Wei and Gareth Jones The objective of an information retrieval (IR) system is to retrieve relevant items which meet a user information need. There is currently significant interest in personalized IR which seeks to improve IR effectiveness by incorporating a model of the user’s interests. However, in some situations there may be no opportunity to learn about the interests of a specific user on a certain topic. In our work, we propose an IR approach which combines a recommender algorithm with IR methods to improve retrieval for domains where the system has no opportunity to learn prior information about the user’s knowledge of a domain for which they have not previously entered a query. We use search data from other previous users interested in the same topic to build a recommender model for this topic. When a user enters a query on a topic, new to this user, an appropriate recommender model is selected and used to predict a ranking which the user may find interesting based on the behaviour of previous users with similar queries. The recommender output is integrated with a standard IR method in a weighted linear combination to provide a final result for the user. Experiments using the INEX 2009data collection with a simulated recommender training set show that our approach can improve on a baseline IR system. 
报告人简介: Paraic Sheridan Dr. Paraic Sheridan is the Operations Director of the Centre for Next Generation Localisation (CNGL), Ireland. He received his B.Sc. degree in Computer Applications from Dublin City University (DCU) in 1989. He then completed an M.Sc. degree in Computer Applications at DCU by research in1991, studying the use of Natural Language Processing in Information Retrieval. This was followed in 1994 by an M.S. degree in Computational Linguistics at Carnegie Mellon University (CMU) in Pittsburgh, PA. He completed his doctoral work in 1998 at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH) Zürich with a dissertation on the topic of Cross-Language Information Retrieval. While at ETH he also helped develop the SPIDER information retrieval system which was commercialized and spun out from ETH into the EuroSpider company. Dr. Sheridan then joined TextWise LLC, a start-up company in Syracuse,NY which was a spin-out from Syracuse University in the area of Natural Language Processing and Information Retrieval. Over the course of a 10-year career at TextWise, Dr. Sheridan held a variety of positions in research management, programme management and product management, ultimately achieving the position of Chief Scientist at the company. This reflected his work on the CINDOR cross-language search system, initially as a government-funded research project which was then commercialised and marketed by TextWise in the enterprise search space. Dr Sheridan will be General co-Chair of ACM SIGIR 2013 to the held inDublin. 
Wei Li Wei Li is a PhD student at the School of Computing, Dublin City Univesity (DCU), Ireland and a member of the CNGL. She holds BA Degree in Computing Science from Beijing University of Technology (2004) and an MSc in Software Engineering from DCU (2009). She was previously QA engineer at The Research Center of Beijing Haojixing. Her research focus on personalisation and domain-adaptation for information retrieval. 
Gareth J. F. Jones Gareth J. F. Jones is a Faculty Member of the School of Computing, Dulinc City University (DCU), Ireland and an investigator in the CNGL. Dr Jones obtained a B.Eng in Electrical and Electronic Engineering from the University of Bristol, U.K. in 1989 and a PhD examining the Application of Linguistic Models in Continuous Speech Recognition in1994 from the same institution. From 1993-96 he was a member of the Speech, Vision and Robotics Group, Department of Engineering and Computer Laboratory, University of Cambridge, working as a Research Associate on the Video Mail Retrieval using Voice (VMR) project. From1996-2003 he was a Lecturer in Media Computing in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Exeter. From 1997-98 he was a Toshiba Fellow and engineer at the Toshiba Corporation Research and Development Centre in Kawasaki, Japan. In 2002 he was a Visiting Scientist to the Informedia project at Carnegie Mellon University, U.S.A. and a JSPS Visiting Fellow at the National Institute of Informatics, Toyko, Japan. Dr Jones’s research focuses on topics in information retrieval, applied natural language processing, human-computer interaction and affective computing. He published more than 250 papers describing this work. He has been an investigator on a variety of research projects exploring topics in these areas funded by Science Foundation Ireland and the European Commission. Previous activities include a project under the China-Ireland collaboration scheme 2005-2007 with Prof Bin Wang at the ICT, Chinese Academy of Sciences. Dr Jones regularly serves on the programme committee of international conferences and workshops and was IR Track chair of ACM CIKM 2010, programme co-Chair of ECIR 2011, and will be General co-Chair of ACM SIGIR 2013 to the held in Dublin.
