http://english.ict.cas.cn/rh/rd/200908/t20090820_33345.html
　　　Computer Application Research Center (CARC) is founded in the end of 2011, which is based on High Performance Computer Research Center and Integration Application Center. Toward to the industry information construction, the foundation of CARC is the important scientific layout of ICT, and the tasks of CARC involve in technology research and development, project implementation, project consultation, etc. In addition, CARC is also the one of the cultivated directions under strategic planning of ICT.　　 　　CARC regards the key industry informatization construction, which serves for the national economy and the people's livelihood, as her own responsibility. Meanwhile, it carries out a series of discipline construction on information system engineering, including social requirements engineering, method of system integration, approach and model of information system performance evaluation, cloud computing, data management, etc. 　　 　　Since the foundation, CARC has undertaken multiple projects regarding informatization top-level design and advisory planning. In detail, these projects that are related to key industries cover smart city, online education, intelligent transportation, intelligent logistics, regional medical, food safety, energy, etc. By now, the construction solutions provided by CARC to industry clients have received unanimous favorable comments.　　 　　Relying on the research experiences and technical advantages in the field of computer system, CARC has independently developed a series of platform-layer software, including parallel database software, data warehouse software, distributed file system, cloud based management platform, cluster management && job scheduling system. Additionally, based on the above software, CARC has further developed many industry application products, such as cloud based education platform, industrial public sentiment system, security office as a service, etc. Until now, these products have been already promoted and applied extensively in some industry informatization construction projects.　　 　　Currently, CARC is acting on the principle of openness, cooperation, and win-win concept, and actively carry out the cooperation with large domestic information system integrators. CARC also provides the independent, controllable information software products and technical services for its partners.　　 　　Moreover, CARC has also undertaken many national vertical projects, including national science & technology pillar program, national natural science foundation, national information security program, etc.　　 
