http://www.ict.cas.cn/xwzx/xshd/200910/t20091021_2586040.html
　　摘要： In this talk, Dr. Hwang will assess the impact of cloud computing and emerging Internet applications. He will present a virtual machine approach to cluster partitioning and mechanisms for replicated data protection. These techniques enable dynamic cloud resource provisioning and secure data management in web-scale distributed computing and business applications. The talk covers evolutional changes from wide-area computational grids, peer-to-peer (P2P) networks, to cloud/utility computing paradigms. He will discuss research issues in building cloud infrastructures and assessing cloud projects at Google, Amazon, IBM, etc. that explore massive server clusters and large number of globally deployed datacenters in recent years.
　　报告人简介：　Dr. Kai Hwang is a Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science and Director of Internet and P2P/Grid Computing Laboratory at the University of Southern California (USC). He received the Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from the University of California, Berkeley in 1972. Prior to joining USC in 1985, he has taught at Purdue University for many years. He has served as a visiting Chief Scientist at the Institute of Computing Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences during 2008. Presently, he also serves as an EMC endowed visiting Professor at Tsinghua University. 
　　An IEEE Fellow, he specializes in computer architecture, parallel processing, Internet security, and distributed computing systems. He has published 8 books and over 200 scientific papers in these areas. He is the founding Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of Parallel and Distributed Computing. He is also on the Editorial Board of IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed System. He has lectured worldwide and performed advisory work for IBM, Intel, MIT Lincoln Lab., JPL in Caltech, Academia Sinica in China, ETL in Japan, GMD in Germany, and INRIA in France. He can be reached via Email: kaihwang@usc.edu or visit his web site : http://Gridsec.usc.edu/Hwang.html.
