http://english.ict.cas.cn/ns/ue/200911/t20091106_46838.html
 Upcoming Events:   Resource Allocation in 4G Wireless Data Networks
 Upcoming Events:   Network Routing for Efficient Energy Usage
Speaker: Dr. Matthew Andrews, Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs, USATime: 10:00am—11:30am, October 16th, 2009 (Friday)Place: Meeting Hall, 4th Floor, ICT, CASAbstract: We shall consider a number of algorithmic problems that arise in the design and operation of today’s telecommunication networks and are being actively studied at Bell Labs. We shall attempt to demonstrate that in many instances we can abstract a clean theoretical problem that can be directly applied to a current system. During the talk we shall discuss both theoretical and practical issues that arise in the following areas:* Routing traffic to prevent wavelength congestion in optical networks* Designing networks of minimum cost to carry traffic from a given demand matrix* Developing algorithms for joint scheduling and congestion control in mobile ad-hoc networks* Designing resource allocation schemes for joint scheduling, power control and frequency assignment in 3G and 4G wireless networksBio:Matthew Andrews is a Distinguished Member of Technical Staff in the Math of Networks and Communications Department at Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs in Murray Hill, New Jersey, USA. He received his B.A. in mathematics from Oxford University, UK in 1993 and his Ph.D. in theoretical computer science from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1997. His research interests include wireless resource allocation, packet scheduling and approximation algorithms. His recent work includes resource allocation algorithms for 4th generation wireless networks and complexity theoretic results on the hardness of network design. He is the holder of 8 telecommunications patents and is the author of over 80 papers that have appeared in conferences including ACM STOC, IEEE FOCS, ACM MOBICOM, IEEE INFOCOM and journals including J. ACM, IEEE/ACM Trans. on Networking, SIAM J. on Computing. He has recently served on the program committees for FOCS, SODA and INFOCOM. On his current trip he will be an invited participant at the first China-America Frontiers of Engineering symposium that is being hosted by the Chinese Academy of Engineering and the US National Academy of Engineering. The aim of this symposium is to bring together engineers from the two countries to discuss engineering problems in a number of disparate fields. 
