http://www.ict.cas.cn/xwzx/xshd/201304/t20130422_3824484.html
As the adoption of cloud computing rapidly grows, there is an increasingly urgent need for cloud systems to deliver performance guarantees, so that users are comfortable to run their critical applications on shared infrastructure, and providers are able to offer more economical performance-based Service Level Agreements (SLA). However, it is still challenging for existing resource management solutions to meet such requirements: first, cloud workloads often exhibit highly dynamic and complex behaviors which make it difficult to accurately estimate their resource demands; second, these workloads typically require multiple types of local and distributed computing and storage resources which are difficult to manage in a holistic manner. 
Ming Zhao is an assistant professor of the School of Computing and Information Sciences (SCIS) at Florida International University (FIU), a state university of Florida and one of the largest public research universities in US. There he directs the research laboratory for Virtualized Infrastructure, Systems, and Applications (VISA), which currently includes eight PhD students and six undergraduates. His research interests include virtualization, cloud computing, high-performance systems, and autonomic computing. He is also interested in the interdisciplinary studies that bridge computer systems research with other domains. His research has been funded by the US National Science Foundation (NSF), Department of Homeland Security, Department of Defense, and industry companies, and his research outcomes have been adopted by several production systems in the industry. Dr. Zhao has received the NSF Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) award, the Air Force Summer Faculty Fellowship, the FIU SCIS Excellence in Student Mentoring award, and the Best Paper award of the IEEE International Conference on Autonomic Computing. He has been on the technical program committee of various premiere conferences in the computing field, including ICAC, HPDC, HPCC, BigData, CCGrid and he is the program committee co-chair of the 2013 USENIX International Workshop on Feedback Computing. Dr. Zhao received his B.E. and M.E. in Automation from Tsinghua University, and his Ph.D. in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of Florida.
