http://english.ict.cas.cn/ns/es/201202/t20120207_81125.html
CAS Beijing Party Commission Announced ICT’s New Leader Group of Party Commission and Commission for Discipline Inspection
 CAS Beijing Party Commission Announced ICT’s New Leader Group of Party Commission and Commission for Discipline Inspection
On January 19th, 2012, Mr. Xiao Jianchun, Deputy Secretary of CAS Beijing Party Committee and Discipline Inspection Commission, visited ICT to announce its new leader group. Mr. Li Haoran, Dean of the Cadre’s Division of CAS Beijing Branch, accompanied him during the visit. 
At the meeting, Mr. Xiao announced the decision made by the Leading Party Group of CAS on December 30th, 2011 – Mr. Lin Jintao appointed to be Party Secretary of ICT, and Mr. Zhang Guanghui to be Deputy Party Secretary and Deputy Secretary of Discipline Inspection Commission. Mr. Xiao highly acknowledged the work and contribution of the former leader group, and in the meantime, he also expressed his congratulations to the new leader group and set high expectations for them. He hopes the new leader group will focus on scientific research and work closely with the administration group to promote ICT’s development in all rounds and facilitate the historic leap from being “good to great”.
Party Secretary Lin Jintao mentioned at the meeting that ICT will continue to carry out its work centering on the strategy and serving the layout of “one orientation, 3 significant breakthroughs, and 5 key cultivation directions”. ICT will commit itself to pushing the scientific research and innovation work to a new level in the face of opportunities and challenges, and facilitating the smooth implementation of “Innovation 2020” and the all-round development of ICT. 
Director Sun Ninghui also made a speech at the meeting. He expressed his deep gratitude to party organizations at various levels for their guidance and support. He highly acknowledged the role of Party Committee in ICT’s development. He hopes the Party Committee will adopt innovative work methods seeing that party members are getting younger and younger. He shared with the audience the outlook of ICT’s work during the next decade. ICT will follow the guideline of “significant output” advocated by President Bai Chunli, further step up its efforts in Dawning, Loongson and Golaxy, and devote itself wholeheartedly to “Innovation 2020”.
Mr. Xiao concluded the meeting with his best wishes to all present for a very happy and successful new year.
