http://www.ict.cas.cn/xwzx/xshd/201207/t20120716_3616211.html
 时间：2012年7月16日（周一）上午10:00-12:00 地点：计算所四层报告厅 报告人：Craig Boutilier，加拿大多伦多大学教授 摘要： Social choice has been the subject of intense investigation within computer science, AI, and operations research, in part because of the ease with which preference data from user populations can now be elicited, assessed, or estimated in online settings. In many domains, the preferences of a group of individuals must be aggregated to form a single consensus recommendation, placing us squarely in the realm of social choice. The application of social choice and voting schemes to domains like web search, product recommendation and social networks places new emphasis on issues such as: articulating suitable decision criteria; approximation; incremental preference elicitation; learning methods for population preferences; and more nuanced analysis of manipulation. In this talk, I'll provide an overview of some of these challenges and outline some of our recent work tackling of them, including: learning probabilistic models of population preferences from choice data; robust optimization with incomplete user preferences; incremental preference elicitation for group decision making; new analyses of manipulation; and connections to social networks. 报告人简介： Craig Boutilier is a Professor in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Toronto. He received his Ph.D. in Computer Science from the University of Toronto in 1992. Boutilier's research interests have spanned a wide range of topics, from knowledge representation, belief revision, default reasoning, and philosophical logic, to probabilistic reasoning, decision making under uncertainty, multiagent systems, and machine learning. He has published over 190 articles in refereed journals, conference proceedings, and other edited collections. Boutilier is currently the Associate Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research (JAIR). He has also served as Associate Editor for JAIR, the Journal of Machine Learning Research (JMLR), and Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems (AAMAS); and he has sat on the editorial/advisory boards of several other journals. Boutilier has organized several international conferences and workshops, including his work as Program Chair of the Sixteenth Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence (UAI-2000) and Program Chair of the Twenty-first International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI-09). He has also served on the conference program committees of 40 leading international conferences. Boutilier is a Fellow of the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AAAI). 
