http://www.ict.cas.cn/xwzx/xshd/201110/t20111027_3385667.html
   时间：2011年10月26日（周三）上午10：00-11：30 地点：计算所440会议室 报告人：黄铠教授，美国南加州大学（Prof. Kai Hwang, University of Southern California） 摘要：In this talk, Dr. Hwang will assess the impacts of cloud ecosystems on the development of future Internet. In the future Internet, public and private clouds will be used to serve most computing, storage and networking demands. First, he will outline the architecture of a service-oriented Internet architecture (SOFIA), that is currently under development at the Institute of Computing Technology, Chinese Academy of Science, in cooperation with the Cloud Computing Research Group at Tsinghua University. He will identify the frontier research tasks to build a healthy ecosystem for computing clouds to be used in the future Internet. The Cloud ecosystem includes the hardware and software infrastructure, new service protocols needed, programming environments, datacenter protection, and business models applied in serving the general public and in supporting the emerging Internet of things (IoT). In particular, cloud service stack, performance bottleneck, security defense, and trust management will be addressed. Several innovative applications on the clouds, datacenters, and the IoT will be introduced in this talk. The talk also covers the issues of ubiquity, mobility, performance scalability, energy-efficiency, and system availability. The roles of virtualization, sensing and tracking technologies, personalized communication, content-addressability, and user friendliness will be discussed in shaping the future Internet. 报告人简介：Kai Hwang is a Professor of EE/CS at the University of Southern California. He is also an IV-endowed visiting chair professor at Tsinghua University in China. He received the Ph.D. from UC Berkeley in 1972. He has published 8 books and over 220 scientific papers in computer architecture, parallel processing, distributed systems, cloud computing, network security, and Internet applications. His work has been cited more than 9,000 times. Hwang's latest book: Distributed and Cloud Computing: from Parallel Processing to the Internet of Things (with G. Fox and J. Dongarra) is published by Kaufmann in 2011. Dr. Hwang was awarded an IEEE Fellow grade by IEEE Computer Society in 1986, received the 2004 Outstanding Achievement Award from China Computer Federation, and the IPDPS-2011 Founder’s Award for his pioneering work in Parallel Processing. He has served as the Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of Parallel and Distributed Computing for 26 years. He can be reached via Email: kaihwang@usc.edu
