http://www.ict.cas.cn/xwzx/xshd/200910/t20091022_2586931.html
　　Service-oriented architecture (SOA) provides a distributed system framework where individual reusable functionality is packaged as a collection of interoperable services. SOA systems require an infrastructure which allows different applications to exchange data with one another as business processes of loosely-coupled, platform-independent services. Using SOA, system builders can focus more on the high level QoS and accountability, rather than the low level connection and delivery. 
　　In this talk, we review the distributed computing models of SOA.  We present our work on service accountability which can be used to make services more manageable and trustworthy in supporting distributed computing models.
　　Kwei-Jay Lin is Professor in the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, University of California, Irvine, USA. He was a Chair Research Fellow at the Institute of Information Science, Academia Sinica, in Taiwan during 2007-2008 and a Distinguished Visitor at the Tsinghua University during summer 2009. Before joining UC Irvine in 1993, he was an Associate Professor at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. He is the Editor-in-Chief of the Springer journal on Service-Oriented Computing and Applications, and Editor-in-Chief of the Software Publication Track, Journal of Information Science and Engineering. He was Associate Editors of the IEEE Trans. on Parallel and Distributed Systems and the IEEE Trans. on Computers. He is a co-chair of the IEEE Technical Committee on E-Commerce. He is the external examiner of the M.S. program in Electronic Commerce and Internet Computing at the Hong Kong University. He has served on the committees of many international conferences, most recently as conference chairs of CEC 2009 and SOCA 2009, and program vice-chair of ICPP 2009 and 2010. His research interests include service-oriented systems, Web technology, real-time systems, scheduling theory, distributed systems, and operating systems.
