http://english.ict.cas.cn/ns/ue/200906/t20090611_25262.html
 Upcoming Events:   Resource Allocation in 4G Wireless Data Networks
 Upcoming Events:   Network Routing for Efficient Energy Usage
Abstract: It has been widely recognized that local phase provides important information in characterizing image structures. The measurement of local phase has also been shown to have strong perceptual relevance and implications. However, the use of local phase information in image analysis and processing has not been fully exploited. This talk focuses on some of our recent work on using local phase information for a number of image analysis and processing applications. In particular, we will introduce a complex wavelet transform domain local phase coherence theory and its applications in image registration and fusion. We will also discuss the use of wavelet phase in image similarity measures, which have good potentials in solving many pattern recognition problems. 
Bio:  WANG, Zhou received the Ph.D. degree from The University of Texas at Austin. He is currently an Assistant Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Waterloo, Canada. Before that, he has been an Assistant Professor at The University of Texas at Arlington, a Research Associate at Howard Hughes Medical Institute and New York University, and a Research Engineer at AutoQuant Imaging Inc. His research interests include image processing, coding, communication, and quality assessment; computational vision and pattern analysis; multimedia coding and communications, and biomedical signal processing. He has more than 70 publications and one U.S. patent in these fields, and is an author of /Modern Image Quality Assessment/ (Morgan & Claypool, 2006). His work on image quality assessment has received wide citation and usage in both academia and the industry. Dr. Wang is an Associate Editor of /IEEE Signal Processing Letters/ and /Pattern Recognition,/ a Guest Editor of /IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Signal Processing/: Special Issue on Visual Media Quality Assessment, and a reviewer for more than 30 international journals. 
