http://www.ict.cas.cn/xwzx/xshd/201207/t20120716_3616212.html
Game theory for security: Key algorithmic principles, deployed systems, lessons learned----中国科学院计算技术研究所
 Game theory for security: Key algorithmic principles, deployed systems, lessons learned
 时间：2012年7月20日（周五）上午10:00-12:00 地点：计算所四层报告厅 报告人：Milind Tambe，美国南加州大学教授 摘要： Security is a critical concern around the world, whether it’s the challenge of protecting ports, airports and other critical national infrastructure, or protecting wildlife and forests, or suppressing crime in urban areas. In many of these cases, limited security resources prevent full security coverage at all times; instead, these limited resources must be scheduled, avoiding schedule predictability, while simultaneously taking into account different target priorities. Computational game theory can help design such unpredictable security schedules. Indeed, casting the problem as a Bayesian Stackelberg game,we have developed new algorithms that are now deployed over multiple years in multiple applications for security scheduling: at the Los Angeles International Airport, for the Federal Air Marshals, for the US coast guard; and applications are under evaluation for the TSA and for the Los Angeles Sheriff’s department. These applications are leading to real-world use-inspired research in the emerging research area of “security games”; specifically, the research challenges posed by these applications include scaling up security games to large-scale problems, handling significant adversarial uncertainty, dealing with bounded rationality of human adversaries, and other interdisciplinary challenges. This lecture will provide an overview of my research's group's work in this area, outlining key algorithmic principles, research results, as well as a discussion of our deployed systems and lessons learned. 报告人简介：Milind Tambe is a Professor of Computer Science and Industrial and Systems Engineering at the University of Southern California (USC). He leads the TEAMCORE Research Group at USC, with research focused on agent-based and multi-agent systems. He is a fellow of AAAI, recipient of the ACM Autonomous Agents Research Award, as well as recipient of the Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation Homeland security award. In addition, he is also the recipient of the "influential paper award" from the International Foundation for Agents and Multiagent Systems, the Rist Prize of the Military Operations Research Society, US Coast Guard First District's Operational Excellence Award, Certificate of Appreciation from the US Federal Air Marshals Service, IBM Faculty Award, Okawa foundation faculty research award, and the RoboCup scientific challenge award. Prof. Tambe's papers have been selected as best papers at a dozen premier Artificial Intelligence Conferences and workshops; these have included best paper awards at the International Conference on Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems and International Conference on Intelligent Virtual Agents. He received his Ph.D. from the School of Computer Science at Carnegie Mellon University. 
