http://www.ict.cas.cn/gjjl/xshd/201706/t20170622_4816657.html
 　　报告题目：TextScope: Enhance Human Perception via Text Mining　　时间：2017年6月22日（周四）上午10:00　　地点：计算所4层报告厅　　报告人：Prof. ChengXiang Zhai, University of Illinois，Urbana-Champaign　　摘要：　　Recent years have seen a dramatic growth of natural language text data. Similar to data generated by a computer system or sensors, text can be regarded as the data generated by humans (as subject intelligent "sensors" of the world) to describe the observed world. As such, text data contain all kinds of knowledge about the world as well as human opinions and preferences, thus providing a great opportunity for mining large amounts of text data ("big text data") to discovery useful knowledge that can support various tasks, especially those involving complex decision-making.　　In this talk, I will present the vision of developing an intelligent text mining tool, called TextScope, to support interactive text mining. Just as a microscope allows us to see things in the micro world,and a telescope allows us to see things far away, the TextScope would allow us to finding useful hidden knowledge buried in large amounts of text data that would otherwise be unknown to us. As examples of techniques that can be used to build a TextScope, I will present a few general statistical text mining algorithms that we have developed for joint analysis of text and non-text data to discover interesting patterns and knowledge. I will also briefly discuss the challenges in developing a TextScope and some important directions for future research.　　报告人简介：　　ChengXiang Zhai is a Professor of Computer Science at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, where he also holds a joint appointment at the Institute for Genomic Biology, Statistics, and the Graduate School of Library and Information Science. He received a Ph.D. in Computer Science from Nanjing University in 1990, and a Ph.D. in Language and Information Technologies from Carnegie Mellon University in 2002. He worked at Clairvoyance Corp. as a Research Scientist and a Senior Research Scientist from 1997 to 2000. His research interests include information retrieval, text mining, natural language processing, machine learning, and bioinformatics. He is an Associate Editor of ACM Transactions on Information Systems, and Information Processing and Management, and serves on the editorial board of Information Retrieval Journal. He is a program co-chair of ACM CIKM 2004 , NAACL HLT 2007, and ACM SIGIR 2009. He is an ACM Distinguished Scientist, and received the 2004 Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers (PECASE), the ACM SIGIR 2004 Best Paper Award, an Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellowship in 2008, and an IBM Faculty Award in 2009.
