http://www.ict.cas.cn/gjjl/xshd/201404/t20140418_4093175.html
 　　时间：2014年4月23日 上午10:00-11:30　　地点：446会议室　　摘要　　Computer science has impact on many parts of our lives. Computer scientists craft the technologies that enable the digital devices we use every day and computing will be at the heart of future revolutions in business, science, and society. Our research targets the next generation computing paradigms and their applications. We have been working on Cloud Computing, Grid Computing &Internet II for many years. A developed Cloud/Grid Computing platform conforms to the Internet standard and can universally accelerate Office/Database/Web/Media applications by a factor up to ten. This work won an ACM/IEEE Super Computing finalist award. We will also report our research on Green Computing, Brain Computing and Future Computing.　　主讲人简介　　王智刚教授现在是英国Kent大学计算机学院院长, IEEE 计算机学会英国及爱尔兰分会主席, 英国皇家计算机学会Fellow。Kent大学是英国一流大学, 在159所大学中排名第24。计算机学院有44年历史, 由英国女王亲自剪彩成立。王教授现在是国际网格云计算杂志主编, 网格计算百科全书主编, 计算机科学大百科全书特邀作者, 爱尔兰共和国政府超级计算评审专家, EDON公司副总裁及CTO。　　王智刚教授目前主要研究方向为未来计算, 非图灵体系结构, 忆阻器以及基于忆阻器的神经网络, 大数据，云计算, 绿色计算，数据存储。王教授对云计算环境下的大数据存贮与管理有重要的贡献。王智刚教授现在拥有几个欧盟及英国政府课题，总经费达5百万欧元。王智刚教授领导的网格存储项目获得国际超级计算大奖。　　Frank Z. Wang is the Professor in Future Computing and Head of School of Computing, University of Kent, UK. The School of Computing was formally opened by Her Majesty the Queen. Professor Wang's research interests include cloud/grid computing, green computing, brain computing and future computing. He has been invited to deliver keynote speeches and invited talks to report his research worldwide, for example at Princeton University, Carnegie Mellon University, CERN, Hong Kong University of Sci. & Tech., Tsinghua University (Taiwan), Jawaharlal Nehru University, Aristotle University, and University of Johannesburg. In 2004, he was appointed as Chair & Professor, Director of Centre for Grid Computing at CCHPCF (Cambridge-Cranfield High Performance Computing Facility). CCHPCF is a collaborative research facility in the Universities of Cambridge and Cranfield (with an investment size of £40 million). Prof Wang and his team have won an ACM/IEEE Super Computing finalist award. Prof Wang was elected as the Chairman (UK & Republic of Ireland Chapter) of the IEEE Computer Society in 2005. He is Fellow of British Computer Society. He has served the Irish Government High End Computing Panel for Science Foundation Ireland (SFI) and the UK Government EPSRC e-Science Panel.
