http://www.ict.cas.cn/gjjl/xshd/201706/t20170607_4808833.html
Data Analytics for Complex Systems: From Circuit Design to Brain Analysis----中国科学院计算技术研究所
 　　Data Analytics for Complex Systems: From Circuit Design to Brain Analysis　　复杂系统的数据分析：从电路设计到大脑分析　　报告时间：2017年6月9日（周五）上午 10:00-11:30　　报告地点：计算所 440室　　主讲人： Li Xin （李昕） Professor , Duke University 昆山杜克大学, 应用自然科学与工程学院院长　　报告摘要：　　Data analytics is an important area that has been continuously growing during the past several decades. This seminar will present several novel statistical algorithms and methodologies for two application domains: circuit and brain. First, a statistical technique, referred to as virtual probe (VP), is proposed to efficiently measure, characterize and monitor spatially-correlated variations for nanoscale integrated circuits. VP exploits the recent breakthroughs in compressive sensing to accurately predict spatial variations from an exceptionally small set of measurement data. Second, a robust regression technique, called robust signal space separation (rSSS), is adopted to model the magnetic field generated by human brain based on quasi-static Maxwell equation. rSSS is then used to remove the noise/artifact and, hence, improve the signal-to-noise ratio for magnetoencephalography. Finally, a number of on-going projects for data analytics will be briefly discussed, covering several interdisciplinary fields such as biomedical engineering, autonomous driving, early child education, business intelligence, advanced manufacturing, etc.　　主讲人简介：　　Xin Li received the Ph.D. degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering from Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA in 2005, and the M.S. and B.S. degrees in Electronics Engineering from Fudan University, Shanghai, China in 2001 and 1998, respectively. He is currently a Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Duke University, Durham, NC, and is leading the Institute of Applied Physical Sciences and Engineering (iAPSE) at Duke Kunshan(昆山杜克大学） University, Kunshan, Jiangsu, China. From 2009 to 2012, he was the Assistant Director for FCRP Focus Research Center for Circuit & System Solutions (C2S2), a national consortium working on next-generation integrated circuit design challenges. He is now on the Board of Directors for R&D Smart Devices (Hong Kong) and X&L Holding (Hong Kong). His research interests include integrated circuit, signal processing and data analytics. Dr. Xin Li is an Associate Editor of IEEE TBME, IEEE TCAD, ACM TODAES, IEEE D&T, and JOLPE. He is a Fellow of IEEE. 
