http://www.ict.cas.cn/gjjl/xshd/200805/t20080528_2119118.html
 时 间：2008年5月29日10:00-11:00 地 点：中国科学院计算技术研究所四层报告厅 报告人： Prof. Yingjie Jay Guo Director of Wireless Technologies Laboratory in CSIRO ICT Centre, Australia 报告摘要：   In this talk, research activities on wireless ad hoc and sensor networks at the Commonwealth Scientific and Research Organization (CSIRO), Australia, will be presented. It will cover the areas of wireless networking, ad hoc positioning, environmental sensors and the applications of wireless sensor networks. 报告人简介： 
  Prof. Y. Jay Guo is the Director of Wireless Technologies Laboratory in CSIRO ICT Centre, Australia. He leads over 70 researchers working on Cognitive Wireless Communications, Wireless Positioning, Multi-spectral Im-aging, Wireless Sensor Networks and the Australian Square Kilometre Array Project (ASKAP). Under his leadership, the laboratory has achieved world-class technology breakthroughs in multi-input and multi-output (MIMO) antennas for wireless communications, and gigabit mm-wave communications networks. The lab formed new research collabo-rations with international companies and organizations including Boeing, Rockwell Collins, NEC, Patriot and CETC. The lab has also made major impact to Australian Industry and community in delivering technology and services to DSTO, Telstra, Optus and Foxtel, HD Medical, and Mine Site Technology. In 2007, the laboratory won three prestig-ious awards, the Australia Engineering Excellence Award, CSIRO Chairman’s Medal and CSIRO Strategic Excel-lence Award, and he personally won the CSIRO ICT Centre Leadership Award.   Prof. Guo has over twenty years of industrial and academic experience in Australia, England and China. He holds over ten patents in the areas of antennas, and mobile and wireless communications. He has published two scien-tific books on mobile communications technologies and antennas, and over 100 scientific papers in top research jour-nals and at refereed conferences. He is an Adjunct Professor at Macquarie University, Australia, and a Guest Profes-sor at CAS ICT.   Prof. Guo is a member of the Australian Electronic Industry Action Agenda group (EIAA), the Telecommunications Society of Australia Innovation Award Committee, and the Industrial Advisory Committee of Macquarie University Engineering School. He has served in the organizing committees for numerous national and international conferences, including IEEE Vehicular Technologies Conference (VTC), IEEE International Conference on Industrial Informatics (INDIN), IEEE International Conference on Wireless Broadband and Ultra Wideband Communications, and Austra-lian Telecommunication Networks and Applications Conference (ANTAC). He was the Chair of the Technical Pro-gram Committee of 2007 IEEE International Symposium on Communications and Information Technologies (ISCIT). 
