http://english.ict.cas.cn/ns/ue/200906/t20090623_25264.html
Application Specific Instruction-set Processor for high performance and low power streaming computing
 Upcoming Events:   Resource Allocation in 4G Wireless Data Networks
 Upcoming Events:   Network Routing for Efficient Energy Usage
 Application Specific Instruction-set Processor for high performance and low power streaming computing
Speaker:Prof. Dake Liu, Chair Professor, Linköping University, SwedenTime: 9:30am, 2009.7.21Place: Report Hall,4th Floor, Institute of Computing Technology, Chinese Academy of SciencesAbstract:In this talk, the research conducted by the Division of Computer Engineering of Linköping University will be briefly introduced. Design of Application Specific Instruction-set Processor (ASIP) for parallel streaming signal processing will be briefly introduced and discussed for researchers who want to know ASIP. Software defined radio baseband will be an example for the discussion.Bio:  Dake Liu is Chair Professor and the Director of Computer Engineering Division at the Department of Electrical Engineering of Linköping University, Sweden. He got technology doctor degree from Linköping University Sweden in 1995. He is IEEE senior member. The focus of Dake's research is high performance low power ASIP (application specific instruction set processors) and integration of on-chip multi-processors for communications and media digital signal processing. Dake has experiences also in design of communication systems, design of Radio frequency CMOS integrated circuits. Dake Liu was the co-founder and CTO of FreehandDSP AB Stockholm Sweden. FreehadDSP was acquired by VIA technologies in 2002. Dake Liu is currently the co-founder and CTO of Coresonic AB Linköping Sweden. Dake Liu was a low power design specialist in Ericsson Microelectronics, Stockholm. Dake Liu was with the Dept. of communication and control, Beijing Jiaotong University, Beijing, China. Dake Liu was guest chair professor of Zhejiang University, China during 2004-2006. He is concurrent professor of Nanjing University, China, and the concurrent professor of HIT China.Dake wrote a text and reference book: Dake Liu Embedded DSP Processor Design, Application Specific Instruction set Processors, Elsevier (Mogen Kaufmann) ISBN 9780123741233.
