http://english.ict.cas.cn/ns/es/201108/t20110823_74107.html
ICT Joined Hands with Xiaoshan District to Establish Xiaoshan Industrial Research Institute & ICT Zhejiang Branch
 ICT Joined Hands with Xiaoshan District to Establish Xiaoshan Industrial Research Institute & ICT Zhejiang Branch
On August 11, ICT and Xiaoshan District People’s Government held the signing and unveiling ceremony of Xiaoshan Industrial Research Institute & ICT Zhejiang Branch. Mr. Hong Hangyong, Member of Hangzhou Municipal Standing Committee and Party Secretary of Xiaoshan District Committee, delivered opening remarks at the ceremony. Mr. Sun Ninghui, Director of ICT, and Mr. Sheng Yuechun, Director of Xiaoshan District, signed the cooperation agreement. Also present at the ceremony were some other leaders from Zhejiang provincial government, Hangzhou municipal government, Xiaoshan District government, CAS, and so on. 
Dr. Li Guojie mentioned in his speech that ICT had successful cooperation with some enterprises in Zhejiang province. Through introducing and transforming results of scientific research, ICT has rendered great support to those local enterprises. With its help, generic technology issue was solved, manpower cost was lowered, and enterprise transforming and upgrading was promoted. He hopes that Xiaoshan Industrial Research Institute will grasp the chance to make greater contributions to the sustainable development of regional economy. 
Mr. Meng Gang, Deputy Secretary General of Zhejiang Provincial People’s Government also delivered a speech. He deems the establishment of ICT Zhejiang branch to be a perfect combination of high technology and local capital, and it will promote local social and economic development and industrial structure adjustment. He hopes that both parties work hand in hand to explore new areas of cooperation between state level research institute and non public sector in terms of technology and talented personnel. 
Xiaoshan Industrial Research Institute will focus on the construction of technology support system including industrial computing technology, industrial automation technology, software and e-commerce, digital entertainment and virtual reality technology. It will also make efforts to attract specialists and talented personnel in industrial technology and electronic information technology both at home and abroad. Within the coming 5 years, Xiaoshan Industrial Research Institute plans to invest 400 million yuan to set up more than 1 sate level center and sub-center. The research and engineering application technical staff will amount to over 200 people. 100 postgraduate students will be cultivated each year. It aims to pull the increase of output value by over 10 billion yuan. 
