http://www.ict.cas.cn/gjjl/xshd/200607/t20060720_2119092.html
报告摘要：Any agent that has to live in a world - real or virtual - not wholly under its control, has to be able to do the right thing in Patti Maes phrase . In the earlier days of AI, this was thought of as being an ability to plan sequences of actions that would hang together logically to get from an initial situation to a desired goal. The work of Brooks , Maes, Suchman, Agre and a whole set of other researchers into situated action in the 1980s pointed out that the assumptions of classical planning - an accurate model of the world, no external change - were seldom met and that the result was agents that on the whole did not do the right thing.   The response of these researchers was a set of behavioural architectures, in which tight sensor-actuator couplings produced a reactive system with little or no internal state. The world is its own best model was the slogan Brooks advanced, and local decision-making was used to make agents responsive to their world.   Of course the existence of local minima, the problem of resolving conflicting behaviours, and a lack of flexability were all objections to wholly behavioural systems. We were among a number of groups who produced hetereogenuous architectures - in our case, in the MACTA project, an AI planner was coupled to multiple behaviourally-driven robots such that the planner provides contextual switching of groups of behaviour patterns, allowing the robots to use an appropriate set for their current goals in a behaviour synthesis system.   While MACTA produced a solution linking a planner to a behavioural system downwards, it is clear that it is equally necessary to link these systems upwards, so that planning - or replanning - is invoked when the behavioural systems fail or are deadlocked. One role of affective systems in animals seems to be in helping to regulate behaviours, and so it would be interesting to see if emotions such as frustration, fear, and anger could be used to produce this upwards connection.   It is also clear that affective systems have a role to play at the upper cognitive planning level, whether in goal management, possibly via motivations, or in acting as heuristucs in the search of large plan-spaces. Influenced, like many others, by Damasios remarks on the links between affect and cognition, I hope to incorporate both low-level and high-level affective systems into a heterogeneous architecture working at both cognitive and behavioural levels. My hypothesis is that this will lay the basis for the sort of functionality that synthetic characters - and robots - require to do the right thing in their worlds.
