http://www.ict.cas.cn/gjjl/xshd/200804/t20080418_2119117.html
 报告人： David D. Zhang, Ph.D, Chair Professor at the Hong Kong Polytechnic University　　 地点： 中国科学院计算技术研究所四层报告厅
摘要：   In recent times, an increasing, worldwide effort has been devoted to the development of automatic personal identification systems that can be effective in a wide variety of security contexts. As one of the most powerful and reliable means of personal authentication, biometrics has been an area of particular interest. This interest has led to the extensive study of biometric technologies such as fingerprint and face recognition and the development of numerous algorithms, applications, and systems. In this presentation, we would like to introduce some development of new biometrics- Palmprints. Palmprints have a number of unique advantages: they are rich in features such as principal lines, wrinkles, and textures and these provide stable and distinctive information sufficient for separating an individual from a large population. Having worked on palmprints since 1996, our team certainly not only regards the palmprint as a very effective biometrics, but also proves its high accuracy compared with other biometrics.  In addition, we have applies biometrics techniques into medical application, called Medical Biometrics. Some related topics like tongue analysis and pulse analysis are discussed in this presentation.
  Prof. David D. Zhang, Graduated in Computer Science from Peking University, received his MSc in Computer Science in 1982 and his PhD in 1985 from the Harbin Institute of Technology (HIT). From 1986 to 1988 he was a Postdoctoral Fellow at Tsinghua University and then an Associate Professor at the Academia Sinica, Beijing. In 1994 he received his second PhD in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of Waterloo, Ontario, Canada. Currently, he is a Chair Professor at the Hong Kong Polytechnic University where he is the Founding Director of the Biometrics Technology Centre (UGC/CRC) supported by the Hong Kong SAR Government in 1998. He also serves as Visiting Chair Professor in Tsinghua University, and Adjunct Professor in Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Beihang University, Harbin Institute of Technology, and the University of Waterloo. He is the Founder and Editor-in-Chief, International Journal of Image and Graphics (IJIG); Book Editor, Springer International Series on Biometrics (KISB); Organizer, the International Conference on Biometrics Authentication (ICBA); Associate Editor of more than ten international journals including IEEE Trans on SMC-A/SMC-C/Pattern Recognition; Technical Committee Chair of IEEE CIS and the author of more than 10 books and 200 journal papers. Professor Zhang is a Croucher Senior Research Fellow, Distinguished Speaker of the IEEE Computer Society, and a Fellow of the International Association of Pattern Recognition (IAPR).
