http://www.ict.cas.cn/xwzx/xshd/201306/t20130619_3877313.html
Test Data Analytics — Exploring Spatial and Test-Item Correlations in Production Test Data----中国科学院计算技术研究所
 Test Data Analytics — Exploring Spatial and Test-Item Correlations in Production Test Data
 报告题目：Test Data Analytics — Exploring Spatial and Test-Item Correlations in Production Test Data 报告人：Kwang-Ting (Tim) Cheng （Univ. of California, Santa Barbara）教授 报告时间：2013-6-20(周四） 上午10:00~11:30 报告地点：446会议室 报告摘要： There exist meaningful patterns in the test data. The discovery of patterns and correlations hidden in the test data has a wide range of applications, including test time reduction, test quality improvement, outlier identification for diagnosis, discovery of weak links in the manufacturing process, and improving design robustness. In the talk, we will describe two statistical regression techniques, Virtual Probe (VP) and Group LASSO (GL), which are promising for test data analytics, and discuss their applications to test time reduction and outlier analysis. The VP technique, based on recent breakthroughs in compressed sensing, can accurately predict spatial variations among dies in the same wafer based on a small set of test measurement data. The GL technique can identify correlations among test items in any given test program. These two techniques can be further combined to jointly explore multiple types of correlations. We will show results on production test data of several IC products and demonstrate their effectiveness for test time reduction. 报告人简介： Cheng received his Ph.D. in EECS from the University of California, Berkeley in 1988. He worked at Bell Laboratories from 1988 to 1993 and joined the faculty at the University of California, Santa Barbara in 1993 where he is now Associate Vice Chancellor for Research and Professor of ECE. He was the founding director of UCSB’s Computer Engineering Program (1999-2002) and Chair of the ECE Department (2005-2008). He held a Visiting Professor position at Taiwan TsingHua Univ. (1999), Univ. of Tokyo, Japan (2008), and Hong Kong Univ. of Science and Technology (2012) and is holding Chair Professorship at Zhejiang Univ. China. His current research interests include mobile embedded systems, SoC design validation and test, and multimedia computing. He has published more than 350 technical papers, co-authored five books, supervised 30 PhD dissertations, and holds 12 U.S. Patents in these areas. Cheng currently serves as Director for DoD/MURI Center for 3D hybrid circuits which aims at integrating CMOS with high-density memristors. He also served on the executive committee, as a research thrust leader, of the SRC/FCRP Gigascale System Research Center. Cheng, an IEEE fellow, received 10 Best Paper Awards from various IEEE conferences and journals. He has also received the 2004-2005 UCSB College of Engineering Outstanding Teaching Faculty Award. He served as Editor-in-Chief of IEEE Design and Test of Computers (2006-2009) and was a board member of IEEE Council of Electronic Design Automation’s Board of Governors, IEEE Computer Society’s Publication Board, and working groups of International Technology Roadmap for Semiconductors (ITRS). He has also served as General and Program Chair for several international conferences including 2012 IEEE International Test Conference. 
