http://english.ict.cas.cn/ns/ue/200910/t20091023_45980.html
 Upcoming Events:   Resource Allocation in 4G Wireless Data Networks
 Upcoming Events:   Network Routing for Efficient Energy Usage
Speaker:Benjamin W. Wah, Professor of the University of Illinois at Urbana-ChampaignTime: 15:00pm, 2009.8.11Place: Room 446,4th Floor, Institute of Computing Technology, Chinese Academy of SciencesAbstract:In this talk, we present the statistical scheduling of offline subjective tests for evaluating alternative control schemes in real-time multimedia applications. These applications are characterized by multiple counteracting objective quality metrics (such as delay and signal quality) that can be affected by various control schemes. However, the trade-offs among these metrics with respect to the subjective preferences of users are not defined. As a result, it is difficult to select the proper control schemes that lead to the best subjective quality at run time. Since subjective tests are expensive to conduct and the number of possible control schemes and run-time conditions is prohibitively large, it is important that a minimum number of such tests be conducted offline, and that the results learned can be generalized to unseen conditions with statistical confidence. Using Bayesian analysis, we study efficient algorithms for scheduling a sequence of subjective tests. We are currently designing a video conferencing system that can automatically learn the control strategy in order to achieve high perceptual quality.Bio:  Benjamin W. Wah is currently the Director of the Advanced Digital Sciences Center in Singapore, as well as the Franklin W. Woeltge Endowed Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering and Professor of the Coordinated Science Laboratory of the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL. He received his Ph.D. degree in computer science from the University of California, Berkeley, CA, in 1979. Previously, he had served on the faculty of Purdue University. He has received a number of awards for his research contributions, which include the IEEE CS Technical Achievement Award (1998), the IEEE Millennium Medal (2000), the Society for Design and Process Science Raymond T. Yeh Lifetime Achievement Award (2003), the IEEE CS W. Wallace-McDowell Award (2006), the Pan Wen-Yuan Outstanding Research Award (2006),the IEEE CS Richard E. Merwin Award (2007), the IEEE-CS Technical Committee on Distributed Processing Outstanding Achievement Award (2007), and the IEEE-CS Tsutomu Kanai Award (2009). Wah's current research interests are in the areas of nonlinear search and optimization, multimedia signal processing, and computer networks. 
