http://www.ict.cas.cn/xwzx/xshd/201406/t20140625_4143665.html
 主讲人：Prof. Yuanyuan Zhou, University of California, San Diego报告时间：2014年6月30日（周一） 下午 14:30-16:00报告地点：4层报告厅报告摘要：Today's data centers usually employ high redundancy to tolerate hardware and software errors. But unfortunately another type of errors, namely configuration errors (i.e., misconfigurations) can still take down the whole data centers. It has contributed to more than 30% high severity issues and caused some of the recent major downtime in cloud service companies including Amazon, Microsoft Azure, Google, Facebook, etc.  Unfortunately, many software developers and system designers put most of blames on users for configuration errors, and do not pay enough attention to handling misconfiguration in a more active way.  Comparing to software bugs, configuration issues have much less tooling support for error detections, issue tracking, tolerance testing, as well as design reviews.     In this talk, I will present our recent work on characterizing misconfigurations in commercial and open source systems as well as a major commercial cloud service providers, and also some of our solutions in addressing this configuration problem. 主讲人简介：Yuanyuan Zhou is currently a Qualcomm Chair Professor at UC-San Diego.  She is an ACM Fellow and obtained her Ph.D from Princeton. Before UCSD, she was a tenured associate professor at University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign. Her research interests span the areas of operating systems, software engineering, system reliability and maintainability.  She has co-founded three startups. Her recent startup, PatternInsight, has successfully deployed software quality assurance tools in many companies  and in 2012  its Log Insight business line was acquired by VmWare and now Log Insight is a VmWare Product offering to its many data center customers for data center management. She has the great fortune of working with many talented students and post-docs, many of whom are currently professors at top universities or  risk-taking entrepreneurs. 
