http://www.ict.cas.cn/xwzx/xshd/200912/t20091209_2706451.html
　　Director of CLOUDS Lab, The University of Melbourne, Australia CEO, Manjrasoft Pvt Ltd, Melbourne, Australia 
　　This seminar (1) presents the 21st century vision of computing and identifies various IT paradigms promising to deliver the vision of computing utilities; (2) defines the architecture for creating market-oriented Clouds and computing atmosphere by leveraging technologies such as VMs; (3) provides thoughts on market-based resource management strategies that encompass both customer-driven service management and computational risk management to sustain SLA-oriented resource allocation; (4) presents the work carried out as part of our new Cloud Computing initiative, called Cloudbus: (i) Aneka, a software system for providing PaaS within private or public Clouds and supporting market-oriented resource management, (ii) internetworking of Clouds for dynamic creation of federated computing environments for scaling of elastic applications, (iii) creation of 3rd party Cloud brokering services for content delivery network and e-Science applications and their deployment on capabilities of IaaS providers such as Amazon and Nirvanix along with Grid mashups, and (iv) CloudSim supporting modelling and simulation of Clouds for performance studies; and (5) concludes with the need for convergence of competing IT paradigms for delivering our 21st century vision along with pathways for future research. 
　　Dr. Rajkumar Buyya is Professor of Computer Science and Software Engineering; and Director of the Cloud Computing and Distributed Systems (CLOUDS) Laboratory at the University of Melbourne, Australia. He is also serving as the founding CEO of Manjrasoft Pty Ltd., a spin-off company of the University, commercialising its innovations in Grid and Cloud Computing. He has authored and published over 300 research papers and four text books. The books on emerging topics that Dr. Buyya edited include, High Performance Cluster Computing (Prentice Hall, USA, 1999), Content Delivery Networks (Springer, Germany, 2008) and Market-Oriented Grid and Utility Computing (Wiley, USA, 2009). He is one of the highly cited authors in computer science and software engineering worldwide. 
　　Dr. Buyya has led the establishment and development of key community activities, including serving as foundation Chair of the IEEE Technical Committee on Scalable Computing and four IEEE conferences (CCGrid, Cluster, Grid, and e-Science). He has presented over 200 invited talks on his vision on IT Futures and advanced computing technologies at international conferences and institutions in Asia, Australia, Europe, North America, and South America. These contributions and international research leadership of Dr. Buyya are recognised through the award of "2009 IEEE Medal for Excellence in Scalable Computing" from the IEEE Computer Society, USA. For further information on Dr. Buyya, please visit his cyberhome: www.buyya.com. 
